Listen, I got to tell you about this whole skating mess, since you wasn't around for none of it and I done told everybody else in my life twice over already.

You know I ain't never been the type to start somethin' new. Forty-some-odd years old and I decided, out of nowhere, that I was fixin' to learn how to skate, real skate, not just holdin' onto the wall like a fool. Everybody I know done learned that when they was seven, eight years old, out behind the house or up at the rink on a Friday night, and here I come wantin' to pick it up grown, with a bad knee and a worse sense of balance. Mama an' them thought I had plumb lost my mind. My workmate looked at me like I'd said I was fixin' to take up sky divin'.

My workmate: "You gon' break somethin', and it ain't gon' be your pride first neither."

That first lesson, Lord. The instructor was sweet as she could be, but she wasn't gon' lie to me neither, and I respect that about her to this day.

The instructor: "Ma'am, I'm not gon' tell you it's easy at your age. It ain't. Your body's got to learn things it forgot it could learn. It'll come, but it's gon' take you longer than these young'uns here, and you might as well make your peace with that now."

And I said okay, ma'am, I hear you, but Lord, I did not know what I was gettin' myself into. My legs went cattywampus under me the second I let go of that wall. Meantime there's these young'uns, cain't been more than nine or ten, just showin' out, flyin' past me backwards, laughin' amongst theirselves, not even mean about it, just young'uns bein' young'uns, but it stung somethin' fierce anyway. I reckon that was the first time in my whole grown life I felt truly outpaced by a child, and I did not care for the feelin' one bit.

That whole first week my body ached in places I forgot I had. Places up under my arms. The backs of my knees. Muscles that ain't said one word to me in twenty years all of a sudden had somethin' to say. I'd cut the lights on at night just to lay there and hurt in the dark, too sore to even reach over and cut 'em back off.

Then come the fall. I mean the fall, the one that liketa killed me. I got a little bit of speed up, more than I had any business havin', and my feet just went out from under me and I come down flat on my back, knocked every bit of breath clean out my body. I laid there on that floor starin' up at the lights, couldn't get a breath in for what felt like a full minute, and all I could think was, well, that's it, I'm done, this was a foolish idea from the start and I'm too old for this foolishness. I said as much too, right out loud, soon as I got my wind back.

Me: "I'm done. I mean it this time. I'm too old for this and my body done told me so plain as day."

My cousin was the one talked me back into it. She'd come along to watch, mostly to laugh I believe, but she wouldn't let me quit that easy.

My cousin: "Girl, get up off that floor. You ain't quittin' on a Tuesday over one fall. Come on back Thursday and if you still feel that way then, fine, but you ain't quittin' today, and that's that."

So I went back Thursday. And directly after that it was slow, slow like watchin' paint dry, slow like a mess of greens simmerin' all afternoon on the back burner. One little thing gotten right after weeks of gettin' it wrong. Learnin' to turn without fallin' out. Learnin' to stop without grabbin' at whoever was closest. A little crowd of onlookers'd gather some evenings, mostly kinfolk of the young'uns there, some of 'em encouragin', hollerin' good job, and some of 'em plainly tickled at my expense, which I did not appreciate, and I told 'em so.

Me: "Don't be ugly now. Y'all laugh all you want but watch, I'm gon' get this."

Bless my heart, is what one of them said back, and I still to this day don't rightly know if that was kindness or the other thing, but I took it as kindness because that's how I choose to take it now.

I quit comparin' myself to them fast young'uns along about the third week, on account of it wasn't doin' nothin' for me but pitchin' a fit inside my own head every single evening. What helped was lookin' back at where I'd been a month before. A month before, I couldn't stand up off that wall for two seconds together. Now I could go the length of the floor without grabbin' onto nothin'. That was the only measurin' stick worth a thing.

Then, right around the fourth month, somethin' clicked. I cain't explain it no better than that, it just clicked, down in the body somewhere, not in my head at all. One evenin' I pushed off and my legs just knew what to do, like they'd been knowin' the whole time and was just waitin' on me to get out the way and let 'em. The instructor seen it happen, seen my face I reckon, and she come over and give me some sugar right there, hugged my neck good, real proud.

The instructor: "There it is. I told you it'd come."

I never did catch up to them young'uns, and by the end I'd made my peace with that, plumb and simple. I ain't fixin' to skate backwards doin' tricks no time soon, might could work at it another ten years and still not get there, might should just let that particular dream go on and rest easy. But I can skate. I can go around that whole floor now without one bit of fear in me, and there was a whole year there I'd have told you that was flat impossible.

Looking back on the whole humiliatin' season of it, fallin' and achin' and gettin' laughed at, I'm right fond of it now, fonder than I ever expected to be. My mama had sweet tea waitin' on me most every evenin' when I come in, and we'd sit and I'd tell her about it while she had a mess of greens goin' on the stove for supper, and she'd just shake her head at me, half proud and half like she thought I was madder than a wet hen for puttin' myself through it. One evenin' it was comin' up a cloud somethin' terrible right as I was fixin' to leave the rink, and I remember thinkin', God willing and the creek don't rise, I'll be back out here Thursday same as always. And I was.

That's the whole of it. Ain't nothin' grand about it, just an old woman who decided late in life to go on and do the thing anyway, and fell a mess of times, and got laughed at some, and did it anyway. I reckon that's worth somethin'.
