Awright, since y'all keep on me about it, and he ain't gonna say a word all night, just gonna sit there grinnin' like the cat that got in the cream, I reckon I'm the one's gotta tell it proper.

We didn't meet at nothin' fancy, now, I want that understood up front, on account of some of y'all like to tell it like it was some kinda church-social miracle. Wadn't nothin' like that. I had me a flat tire outside the Pump N Shop over on Summer, must be near on eleven years back now, and I did not know the first thing about changin' it. Didn't even know where the jack was at in my own trunk, Lord help me. And here comes this man walkin' up from the pumps still holdin' his coke, wadn't even his business, and he says, "You fixin' to stand there lookin' at it, or you want some help." Just like that. No how-do-you-do, nothin'.

And I remember exactly what I told him back, on account of I have had to hear it repeated to me at every family reunion since. I said, "Well I got two dollars and this here coke I ain't opened yet, that's all the payment you gettin'." And he laughed so hard he liketa choked on his own drink, and that was that. Man still tells people I tried to pay him in soda pop.

Now I ain't gonna sit up here and act like I was sold right off. I want to say that plain, on account of it's true and he knows it's true. I was not sure about him at first, and the reason's worth namin', he'd only been out of a marriage about four months when we met, and I did not want to be nobody's rebound, I had done been somebody's rebound one time before and I was not fixin' to do it again. So I kept him at arm's length a good while. Mama used to say, "Bless his heart, he's tryin'," on account of he did try. Showed up to ever' single one of Mama's Sunday dinners with a dish, didn't matter he couldn't cook worth a lick, brought store-bought deviled eggs three weeks runnin' till my aunt finally took pity and showed him how. What changed my mind wadn't no big speech or nothin'. It was him rememberin' I liked chess pie better'n pecan, little thing I'd said one time in passin', and there it was sittin' on the counter next Sunday, plain as anything. That's what got me. Man pays attention.

First time we went and did somethin' outside of just runnin' into each other, he asked could he take me to supper, and I told him I might could make it Friday if my shift let out on time, and I said yes, and then like the good Lord was testin' us both, our schedules never once lined up right for near on two months after that. I was workin' days out at the hospital and he was on nights out at the hub, and by the time I was gettin' up of a mornin' he was just gettin' home, so it was mostly notes left on windshields and phone calls at fool hours. Bad timing, plain and simple, ain't no way to dress that up. What got us past it was he started comin' by on his lunch, which for him was about three in the mornin', just to sit on my porch steps for twenty minutes and look off yonder at nothin' in particular before he went home to sleep. I told him more than once he might should call first 'fore just showin' up like that, but he never did listen. Twenty minutes, near every night, for I don't know, six weeks. That's how we got past it. Wadn't romantic in the movie sense. Was just him showin' up.

Now, that coke bottle, some of y'all already grinnin', so I know I don't have to explain it, but I'm gonna say it anyway on account of it's my toast. I kept that glass bottle. Still got it on my kitchen windowsill this mornin', and to this day if he does somethin' sweet I tell him he still owes me on that debt, and if I do somethin' nice for him he says, "Well now, put it on my tab." Mama an' them still bring it up every Thanksgivin' like it's the first time they thought of it. Been goin' on eleven years. That bottle has outlasted two trucks and one dog.

I knew it'd gone serious when he took his appendix out, well, the doctor took it out, but y'all know what I mean, and I sat up in that waitin' room from about six that evenin' till near four in the mornin', missed a whole shift, didn't even think twice about it. His mama come in around midnight to spell me and I wouldn't leave. She's the one told him, when he come to, "That girl has been out there the whole time, ain't moved." He said that's when he knew. I reckon I knew before that, but that's when he found out I knew.

The askin' now, y'all, don't let him tell it different, there wadn't no restaurant, wadn't no gettin' down on one knee in front of a waterfall or none of that these young'uns do now with the balloons and all. We were standin' in the produce aisle at the Piggly Wiggly, I had the buggy, he was supposed to be pickin' out greens for a mess he was fixin' to cook, and he just reached in his coverall pocket right there by the turnip greens and said, "I done carried this thing around three weeks tryin' to find the right time and I'm plumb tired of carryin' it, will you marry me or not." In front of the produce man and everything. I said yes standin' right there next to the collards. About a year later, near to the day, we were married.

Families took it about how you'd expect. His mama loved me from the jump, had me callin' her Mama inside of a month, y'all know how she is. My daddy now, he took some warmin' up to, on account of Daddy did not think a man that fixed cars for a livin' could keep a family, and Daddy can pitch a fit when he's got his mind set on somethin', and he had his mind set right good. Mama finally told him, "Don't be ugly about it, he's a good man," and Daddy huffed about it but he heard her. Took the better part of that year and my husband comin' round every Saturday to help Daddy with that truck of his that was forever cattywampus somehow, before Daddy come around proper. By the weddin' he was walkin' around tellin' ever'body it was his idea all along.

Weddin' day itself, and this ain't nothin' you'll see in a picture nowhere, right in the middle of the vows, it commenced comin' up a cloud somethin' fierce, sky went plumb near black, and my grandmother, God rest her, hollered out loud enough the preacher heard her, "Better hurry up 'fore the creek rises!" Whole tent just fell out laughin', preacher couldn't even keep a straight face. Our nephew had been showin' out through the whole rehearsal the night before, but he stood stone still durin' the actual vows, first time all week. My grandmother, who used to could two-step better'n anybody in the county, got up anyway at the reception and danced two songs before her hip made her sit back down. Rain never did come, neither. Just threatened us the whole ceremony and quit.

We have had us a hard stretch or two since, same as anybody, I ain't gonna stand up here and dwell on it, but I will say when he lost that job a few years back and it looked cattywampus for a good while, what carried us through was mostly just supper. Sittin' down together of an evenin' no matter how bad the day had been, sweet tea on the table, and not lettin' each other pitch too big a fit about it alone. Kinfolk helped too, don't get me wrong, but mostly it was just the two of us not lettin' go of the little things.

And I'll tell y'all what ain't changed one bit since that man walked up on me holdin' a coke and a bad attitude about my flat tire, he is still the exact same fool. Still brings me somethin' sweet when he don't need to. Still says yes ma'am to my mama even when he's fixin' to disagree with her. Still makes me laugh before he makes me mad, ever' single time, which I reckon is the whole secret if there is one.

So. Come here and gimme some sugar, and the rest of y'all raise your glass, on account of I ain't done this in eleven years and my arm's gettin' tired.
