The foreman: Awright now, 'fore y'all wander off home, we better settle in on tomorrow. I ain't studyin' on it at six in the mornin'.

The eldest: What time we startin'? I ain't gettin' up at no five-thirty, my knees done had enough of that mess.

The foreman: Seven's plenty early. Sun ain't even up good 'fore seven noways.

The driver: Seven works. I'm fixin' to swing by and grab some cokes for the cooler on my way in anyhow.

The foreman: That's the ticket. It's the Whitehaven job tomorrow, that porch and the fence line out back. Gonna need all four of us on it.

The young one: I got the truck and the compressor loaded already. Bringin' my own nail gun this go-round, ain't waitin' on nobody.

The eldest: I'll bring the levels and them stakes for the fence. Might could get it laid out 'fore lunch if the ground ain't too hard.

The foreman: Well see now, that's what's frettin' me. We're short on them treated posts. Might not have plumb enough to finish that whole run.

The driver: Lord, and it's fixin' to come up a cloud tomorrow evenin' too, seen it on the news.

The foreman: Then we best hustle. And somebody's got to dig them post holes, that clay back there is plumb hard as a brick.

The young one: Well don't be lookin' at me.

The foreman: Bless your heart, somebody's got to.

The young one: I done dug holes all week, my back's about wore plumb out. Fine, I'll do it, but y'all owe me directly.

The foreman: Awright, who all's comin'. That's four, right?

The eldest: Naw, he called a while ago, said he cain't make it. His young'un's runnin' a fever and his old lady's got to work.

The foreman: Well shoot. That leaves us one short then.

The driver: I'll cover his part, don't mind haulin' the lumber none.

The foreman: Well ain't you sweet. Reckon that makes two you got comin' to you now.

The driver: Don't be ugly, I'm just doin' y'all a favor.

The foreman: God willing and the creek don't rise, we'll knock it out 'fore supper. Seven o'clock, y'all be there, and don't come draggin' up at nine like last time.

The eldest: We'll be there, sir. Gimme some sugar 'fore I go, and I'll see y'all come mornin'.
