Lord, sit down, cause I got to tell you 'bout the worst trip me and my sister ever took, and I'm laughin' now but I promise you I was not laughin' then, not one little bit.

Now this here was the family reunion down in Atlanta, and we had planned this thing for months, I mean MONTHS. Tickets bought early, bags packed the night before, mama an' them already down there settin' up tables and cookin', and me and my sister was s'posed to just roll up smooth as you please on the Greyhound outta downtown, six in the mornin', get there by suppertime, easy as that. That was the plan. Wasn't s'posed to be nothin' to it.

Well. First lick of trouble come before we even left the station. Bus was s'posed to pull out at six, and here it is pushin' eight o'clock and we still settin' on them hard plastic seats, and the man at the counter just keep sayin' it's fixin' to leave, it's fixin' to leave, any minute now, ma'am. I done heard that man say "fixin' to" about nine times before that bus ever moved a inch. Should'a known right then how the day was gonna go.

So we finally git rollin', two hours behind already, and I'm thinkin' well, we might could still make good time if the driver hustle a little. Ain't no such luck. We ain't even a hour and a half out, still in Alabama, when that bus start makin' a noise like somethin' dyin' up under the hood, and next thing you know we coastin' onto the shoulder and the driver come on the speaker sayin' we got engine trouble and he gotta call it in.

Child, I liketa died right there. My grandmama always did say "liketa died" about everything, and I used to think she was exaggeratin', but I'm tellin' you, I understood her that day.

So now we all pilin' off this bus onto the side of the interstate, and it ain't just us no more, more folks kept comin', I reckon off another bus that got flagged down too, or maybe just other stranded travelers that pulled in behind us, and pretty soon there's a whole crowd of us standin' around this little gas station up the road, everybody with they bags, everybody askin' the same question over and over: when's it comin', when's it comin'. And nobody had a answer. Three hours we stood out there, more than three, and every hour somebody'd come out and say fifteen more minutes, fifteen more minutes, and that fifteen minutes stretched on plumb near forever.

And on top of all that, the sky commence to doin' somethin' ugly. I looked up and told my sister, I said, that's comin' up a cloud right there, and sure enough it did, thunder rollin' in, wind pickin' up, and here we are stuck outside with no bus, no shelter but this one little overhang, gettin' soaked to the bone. Folks was pitchin' a fit left and right, I mean grown men hollerin' at a bus driver who didn't have a thing to do with the weather.

And right in the middle of all that mess, I turn around and my sister ain't there. Just gone. I'm hollerin' her name over that crowd and the rain and everything, and my heart just droppin' cause I don't know if she wandered off lookin' for a bathroom or what, and this went on a good twenty minutes, me walkin' up and down that gas station lot like a fool, askin' strangers had they seen her, and finally I find her clean on the other side of the buildin' where she'd gone to try and find a dry spot to charge her phone, didn't hear a thing over the storm. I coulda swatted her and hugged her both at the same time.

But I will tell you, in all that ugliness, there was a sweet spot too. This older gentleman, didn't know him from Adam, seen us standin' there soaked and shakin', and he went in that gas station and come back out with two coffees, didn't ask for a dime, just said "y'all look like you need this worse than I do." I have thought about that man more times than I can count since then. Small little thing, but Lord, it meant somethin' that day.

Once the bus company finally admitted that bus wasn't goin' nowhere, they told us they'd send a replacement, might be a good while though, and me and my sister looked at each other and decided we better find our own way, cause "a good while" from them people coulda meant anything. So we wound up havin' to pay for a car service to run us up to the next big station, and that right there cost us fifty dollars we had not planned to spend, not one dime of it, and I ain't even gonna lie, that put me in a mood.

And that's when me and my sister really got into it. She wanted to wait it out at that first station and I wanted to move, and it went somethin' like this:

Me: We need to go on and get that car, cause I ain't standin' out here in this mess no more waitin' on a bus that ain't comin'.

The sister: You don't know that it ain't comin'. We done already lost half the day, don't need to go spendin' money we ain't got on top of it.

Me: We already lost half the day standin' still! I'd rather spend the fifty than lose another two, three hours doin' nothin'.

The sister: You always was hasty. Fine. Do what you want, but don't be ugly with me if it don't work out.

Me: I ain't bein' ugly, I'm bein' practical.

Well, we got the car, and wouldn't you know it, the driver, bless his heart, he was tryin', took a wrong turn tryin' to shortcut around some construction, and that wrong turn cost us two more hours we did not have to spare. My sister ain't said a word the whole time, just sat there with her arms folded, and I knew good and well what that silence meant. Madder than a wet hen and holdin' it in.

By that point I was plumb wore out, and I mean wore slap out, the kind of tired where your eyes is burnin' and your whole body feel cattywampus, like it's put together wrong. That right there was the low point, sittin' in the back of a stranger's car, soaked, broke, tired, my sister not speakin' to me, and Atlanta feelin' like it was a thousand miles further off than when we started.

But then, God willing and the creek don't rise, our luck finally turned. Driver's radio come on with a traffic report sayin' the interstate ahead had done cleared up, and not two minutes after that my sister's phone rung and it was our cousin, who it turned out was drivin' up that very same road headed the other way from a errand, and he swung around and met us at the next exit and just carried us the rest of the way hisself. Didn't cost us nothin' but his gas and about a hour of his evenin', and after the day we'd had, that felt like the good Lord reachin' down personal.

We pulled up to mama an' them's house a full nine hours after we was s'posed to get there. Nine hours. Everybody done already ate supper, greens and all, table half cleared off, but soon as we come through that door mama hollered like we'd been gone a year, cut the lights on in the front room, and had us set right down and fixed us plates anyway. My sister and me, we was a sight, hair every kind of wrong way, clothes still damp, eyes half shut, and all we could do was laugh, cause what else was there left to do.

Mama looked at the both of us and just shook her head and said, "Y'all look like something the cat drug in," and gave us both some sugar right there in the doorway like we hadn't just spent the day fightin' each other half to death.

So that's the story. Started out plannin' to git there smooth and easy, and ended up nine hours late, soaked, broke fifty dollars poorer, and half mad at each other the whole way, and I still tell it every chance I get, cause honey, some trips ain't worth nothin' till you can look back and laugh at 'em.
