Thu. How likes she my discourse?
 Pro. Ill, when you talke of war
Thu. But well, when I discourse of loue and peace
Iul. But better indeede, when you hold you peace
 Thu. What sayes she to my valour?
 Pro. Oh Sir, she makes no doubt of that
Iul. She needes not, when she knowes it cowardize
 Thu. What saies she to my birth?
 Pro. That you are well deriu'd
Iul. True: from a Gentleman, to a foole
 Thu. Considers she my Possessions?
 Pro. Oh, I: and pitties them
 Thu. Wherefore?
 Iul. That such an Asse should owe them
Pro. That they are out by Lease
Iul. Here comes the Duke
 Du. How now sir Protheus; how now Thurio?
Which of you saw Eglamoure of late?
 Du. Saw you my daughter?
 Du. Why then
She's fled vnto that pezant, Valentine;
And Eglamoure is in her Company:
'Tis true: for Frier Laurence met them both
As he, in pennance wander'd through the Forrest:
Him he knew well: and guesd that it was she,
But being mask'd, he was not sure of it.
Besides she did intend Confession
At Patricks Cell this euen, and there she was not.
These likelihoods confirme her flight from hence;
Therefore I pray you stand, not to discourse,
But mount you presently, and meete with me
Vpon the rising of the Mountaine foote
That leads toward Mantua, whether they are fled:
Dispatch (sweet Gentlemen) and follow me
 Thu. Why this it is, to be a peeuish Girle,
That flies her fortune when it followes her:
Ile after; more to be reueng'd on Eglamoure,
Then for the loue of reck-lesse Siluia
 Pro. And I will follow, more for Siluias loue
Then hate of Eglamoure that goes with her
 Iul. And I will follow, more to crosse that loue
Then hate for Siluia, that is gone for loue.
Siluia, Outlawes.
 1.Out. Come, come be patient:
We must bring you to our Captaine
 Sil. A thousand more mischances then this one
Haue learn'd me how to brooke this patiently
2 Out. Come, bring her away
1 Out. Where is the Gentleman that was with her?
3 Out. Being nimble footed, he hath out-run vs.
But Moyses and Valerius follow him:
Goe thou with her to the West end of the wood,
There is our Captaine: Wee'll follow him that's fled,
The Thicket is beset, he cannot scape
1 Out. Come, I must bring you to our Captains caue.
Feare not: he beares an honourable minde,
And will not vse a woman lawlesly
Sil. O Valentine: this I endure for thee.
Enter Valentine, Protheus, Siluia, Iulia, Duke, Thurio, Outlawes.
 Val. How vse doth breed a habit in a man?
This shadowy desart, vnfrequented woods
I better brooke then flourishing peopled Townes:
Here can I sit alone, vn-seene of any,
And to the Nightingales complaining Notes
Tune my distresses, and record my woes.
O thou that dost inhabit in my brest,
Leaue not the Mansion so long Tenant-lesse,
Lest growing ruinous, the building fall,
And leaue no memory of what it was,
Repaire me, with thy presence, Siluia:
Thou gentle Nimph, cherish thy forlorne swaine.
What hallowing, and what stir is this to day?
These are my mates, that make their wills their Law,
Haue some vnhappy passenger in chace;
They loue me well: yet I haue much to doe
To keepe them from vnciuill outrages.
Withdraw thee Valentine: who's this comes heere?
 Pro. Madam, this seruice I haue done for you
(Though you respect not aught your seruant doth)
To hazard life, and reskew you from him,
That would haue forc'd your honour, and your loue,
Vouchsafe me for my meed, but one faire looke:
(A smaller boone then this I cannot beg,
And lesse then this, I am sure you cannot giue.)
 Val. How like a dreame is this? I see, and heare:
Loue, lend me patience to forbeare a while
Sil. O miserable, vnhappy that I am
 Pro. Vnhappy were you (Madam) ere I came:
But by my comming, I haue made you happy
Sil. By thy approach thou mak'st me most vnhappy
Iul. And me, when he approcheth to your presence
 Sil. Had I beene ceazed by a hungry Lion,
I would haue beene a breakfast to the Beast,
Rather then haue false Protheus reskue me:
Oh heauen be iudge how I loue Valentine,
Whose life's as tender to me as my soule,
And full as much (for more there cannot be)
I doe detest false periur'd Protheus:
Therefore be gone, sollicit me no more
 Pro. What dangerous action, stood it next to death
Would I not vndergoe, for one calme looke:
Oh 'tis the curse in Loue, and still approu'd
When women cannot loue, where they're belou'd
 Sil. When Protheus cannot loue, where he's belou'd:
Read ouer Iulia's heart, (thy first best Loue)
For whose deare sake, thou didst then rend thy faith
Into a thousand oathes; and all those oathes,
Descended into periury, to loue me,
Thou hast no faith left now, vnlesse thou'dst two,
And that's farre worse then none: better haue none
Then plurall faith, which is too much by one:
Thou Counterfeyt, to thy true friend
 Pro. In Loue,
Who respects friend?
 Pro. Nay, if the gentle spirit of mouing words
Can no way change you to a milder forme;
Ile wooe you like a Souldier, at armes end,
And loue you 'gainst the nature of Loue: force ye
Sil. Oh heauen
Pro. Ile force thee yeeld to my desire
 Val. Ruffian: let goe that rude vnciuill touch,
Thou friend of an ill fashion
 Val. Thou common friend, that's without faith or loue,
For such is a friend now: treacherous man,
Thou hast beguil'd my hopes; nought but mine eye
Could haue perswaded me: now I dare not say
I haue one friend aliue; thou wouldst disproue me:
Who should be trusted, when ones right hand
Is periured to the bosome? Protheus
I am sorry I must neuer trust thee more,
But count the world a stranger for thy sake:
