How euer: but a folly bought with wit,
Or else a wit, by folly vanquished
Pro. So, by your circumstance, you call me foole
Val. So, by your circumstance, I feare you'll proue
Pro. 'Tis Loue you cauill at, I am not Loue
 Val. Loue is your master, for he masters you;
And he that is so yoked by a foole,
Me thinkes should not be chronicled for wise
 Pro. Yet Writers say; as in the sweetest Bud,
The eating Canker dwels; so eating Loue
Inhabits in the finest wits of all
 Val. And Writers say; as the most forward Bud
Is eaten by the Canker ere it blow,
Euen so by Loue, the yong, and tender wit
Is turn'd to folly, blasting in the Bud,
Loosing his verdure, euen in the prime,
And all the faire effects of future hopes.
But wherefore waste I time to counsaile thee
That art a votary to fond desire?
Once more adieu: my Father at the Road
Expects my comming, there to see me ship'd
Pro. And thither will I bring thee Valentine
 Val. Sweet Protheus, no: Now let vs take our leaue:
To Millaine let me heare from thee by Letters
Of thy successe in loue; and what newes else
Betideth here in absence of thy Friend:
And I likewise will visite thee with mine
Pro. All happinesse bechance to thee in Millaine
Val. As much to you at home: and so farewell.
 Pro. He after Honour hunts, I after Loue;
He leaues his friends, to dignifie them more;
I loue my selfe, my friends, and all for loue:
Thou Iulia, thou hast metamorphis'd me:
Made me neglect my Studies, loose my time;
Warre with good counsaile; set the world at nought;
Made Wit with musing, weake; hart sick with thought
Sp. Sir Protheus: 'saue you: saw you my Master?
Pro. But now he parted hence to embarque for Millain
 Sp. Twenty to one then, he is ship'd already,
And I haue plaid the Sheepe in loosing him
 Pro. Indeede a Sheepe doth very often stray,
And if the Shepheard be awhile away
 Sp. You conclude that my Master is a Shepheard then,
and I Sheepe?
Sp. Why then my hornes are his hornes, whether I
wake or sleepe
Pro. A silly answere, and fitting well a Sheepe
Sp. This proues me still a Sheepe
Pro. True: and thy Master a Shepheard
Sp. Nay, that I can deny by a circumstance
Pro. It shall goe hard but ile proue it by another
 Sp. The Shepheard seekes the Sheepe, and not the
Sheepe the Shepheard; but I seeke my Master, and my
Master seekes not me: therefore I am no Sheepe
Pro. The Sheepe for fodder follow the Shepheard,
the Shepheard for foode followes not the Sheepe: thou
for wages followest thy Master, thy Master for wages
followes not thee: therefore thou art a Sheepe
Sp. Such another proofe will make me cry baa
Pro. But do'st thou heare: gau'st thou my Letter
to Iulia?
Sp. I Sir: I (a lost-Mutton) gaue your Letter to her
(a lac'd-Mutton) and she (a lac'd-Mutton) gaue mee (a
lost-Mutton) nothing for my labour
 Pro. Here's too small a Pasture for such store of
 Sp. If the ground be ouer-charg'd, you were best
sticke her
 Pro. Nay, in that you are astray: 'twere best pound
you
 Sp. Nay Sir, lesse then a pound shall serue me for carrying
your Letter
Pro. You mistake; I meane the pound, a Pinfold
 Sp. From a pound to a pin? fold it ouer and ouer,
'Tis threefold too little for carrying a letter to your louer
Pro. But what said she?
Pro. Nod-I, why that's noddy
 Sp. You mistooke Sir: I say she did nod;
And you aske me if she did nod, and I say I
Pro. And that set together is noddy
Sp. Now you haue taken the paines to set it together,
take it for your paines
Pro. No, no, you shall haue it for bearing the letter
Sp. Well, I perceiue I must be faine to beare with you
Pro. Why Sir, how doe you beare with me?
 Sp. Marry Sir, the letter very orderly,
Hauing nothing but the word noddy for my paines
Pro. Beshrew me, but you haue a quicke wit
Sp. And yet it cannot ouer-take your slow purse
 Pro. Come, come, open the matter in briefe; what
said she
 Sp. Open your purse, that the money, and the matter
may be both at once deliuered
Pro. Well Sir: here is for your paines: what said she?
Sp. Truely Sir, I thinke you'll hardly win her
Pro. Why? could'st thou perceiue so much from her?
 Sp. Sir, I could perceiue nothing at all from her;
No, not so much as a ducket for deliuering your letter:
And being so hard to me, that brought your minde;
I feare she'll proue as hard to you in telling your minde.
Giue her no token but stones, for she's as hard as steele
Pro. What said she, nothing?
 Sp. No, not so much as take this for thy pains:
To testifie your bounty, I thank you, you haue cestern'd me;
In requital whereof, henceforth, carry your letters your
selfe; And so Sir, I'le commend you to my Master
 Pro. Go, go, be gone, to saue your Ship from wrack,
Which cannot perish hauing thee aboarde,
Being destin'd to a drier death on shore:
I must goe send some better Messenger,
I feare my Iulia would not daigne my lines,
Receiuing them from such a worthlesse post.
Enter Iulia and Lucetta.
 Iul. But say Lucetta (now we are alone)
Would'st thou then counsaile me to fall in loue?
Luc. I Madam, so you stumble not vnheedfully
 Iul. Of all the faire resort of Gentlemen,
That euery day with par'le encounter me,
In thy opinion which is worthiest loue?
 Lu. Please you repeat their names, ile shew my minde,
According to my shallow simple skill
 Iu. What thinkst thou of the faire sir Eglamoure?
