Sp. Item, she doth talke in her sleepe
La. It's no matter for that; so shee sleepe not in her
talke
Sp. Item, she is slow in words
 La. Oh villaine, that set this downe among her vices;
To be slow in words, is a womans onely vertue:
I pray thee out with't, and place it for her chiefe vertue
Sp. Item, she is proud
 La. Out with that too:
It was Eues legacie, and cannot be t'ane from her
Sp. Item, she hath no teeth
La. I care not for that neither: because I loue crusts
Sp. Item, she is curst
La. Well: the best is, she hath no teeth to bite
Sp. Item, she will often praise her liquor
 La. If her liquor be good, she shall: if she will not,
I will; for good things should be praised
Sp. Item, she is too liberall
La. Of her tongue she cannot; for that's writ downe
she is slow of: of her purse, shee shall not, for that ile
keepe shut: Now, of another thing shee may, and that
cannot I helpe. Well, proceede
Sp. Item, shee hath more haire then wit, and more
faults then haires, and more wealth then faults
La. Stop there: Ile haue her: she was mine, and not
mine, twice or thrice in that last Article: rehearse that
once more
Sp. Item, she hath more haire then wit
La. More haire then wit: it may be ile proue it: The
couer of the salt, hides the salt, and therefore it is more
then the salt; the haire that couers the wit, is more
then the wit; for the greater hides the lesse: What's
next?
Sp. And more faults then haires
La. That's monstrous: oh that that were out
Sp. And more wealth then faults
La. Why that word makes the faults gracious:
Well, ile haue her: and if it be a match, as nothing is
impossible
 Sp. What then?
 La. Why then, will I tell thee, that thy Master staies
for thee at the North gate
 Sp. For me?
 La. For thee? I, who art thou? he hath staid for a better
man then thee
 Sp. And must I goe to him?
 La. Thou must run to him; for thou hast staid so long,
that going will scarce serue the turne
 Sp. Why didst not tell me sooner? 'pox of your loue
 La. Now will he be swing'd for reading my Letter;
An vnmannerly slaue, that will thrust himselfe into secrets:
Ile after, to reioyce in the boyes correction.
Enter Duke, Thurio, Protheus.
 Du. Sir Thurio, feare not, but that she will loue you
Now Valentine is banish'd from her sight
 Th. Since his exile she hath despis'd me most,
Forsworne my company, and rail'd at me,
That I am desperate of obtaining her
 Du. This weake impresse of Loue, is as a figure
Trenched in ice, which with an houres heate
Dissolues to water, and doth loose his forme.
A little time will melt her frozen thoughts,
And worthlesse Valentine shall be forgot.
How now sir Protheus, is your countriman
(According to our Proclamation) gon?
 Pro. Gon, my good Lord
 Du. My daughter takes his going grieuously?
 Pro. A little time (my Lord) will kill that griefe
 Du. So I beleeue: but Thurio thinkes not so:
Protheus, the good conceit I hold of thee,
(For thou hast showne some signe of good desert)
Makes me the better to confer with thee
 Pro. Longer then I proue loyall to your Grace,
Let me not liue, to looke vpon your Grace
 Du. Thou know'st how willingly, I would effect
The match betweene sir Thurio, and my daughter?
 Du. And also, I thinke, thou art not ignorant
How she opposes her against my will?
 Pro. She did my Lord, when Valentine was here
 Du. I, and peruersly, she perseuers so:
What might we doe to make the girle forget
The loue of Valentine, and loue sir Thurio?
 Pro. The best way is, to slander Valentine,
With falsehood, cowardize, and poore discent:
Three things, that women highly hold in hate
Du. I, but she'll thinke, that it is spoke in hate
 Pro. I, if his enemy deliuer it.
Therefore it must with circumstance be spoken
By one, whom she esteemeth as his friend
Du. Then you must vndertake to slander him
 Pro. And that (my Lord) I shall be loath to doe:
'Tis an ill office for a Gentleman,
Especially against his very friend
 Du. Where your good word cannot aduantage him,
Your slander neuer can endamage him;
Therefore the office is indifferent,
Being intreated to it by your friend
 Pro. You haue preuail'd (my Lord) if I can doe it
By ought that I can speake in his dispraise,
She shall not long continue loue to him:
But say this weede her loue from Valentine,
It followes not that she will loue sir Thurio
 Th. Therefore, as you vnwinde her loue from him;
Least it should rauell, and be good to none,
You must prouide to bottome it on me:
Which must be done, by praising me as much
As you, in worth dispraise, sir Valentine
 Du. And Protheus, we dare trust you in this kinde,
Because we know (on Valentines report)
You are already loues firme votary,
And cannot soone reuolt, and change your minde.
Vpon this warrant, shall you haue accesse,
Where you, with Siluia, may conferre at large.
For she is lumpish, heauy, mellancholly,
And (for your friends sake) will be glad of you;
Where you may temper her, by your perswasion,
To hate yong Valentine, and loue my friend
 Pro. As much as I can doe, I will effect:
But you sir Thurio, are not sharpe enough:
You must lay Lime, to tangle her desires
By walefull Sonnets, whose composed Rimes
Should be full fraught with seruiceable vowes
Du. I, much is the force of heauen-bred Poesie
 Pro. Say that vpon the altar of her beauty
You sacrifice your teares, your sighes, your heart:
