O, but I loue his Lady too-too much,
And that's the reason I loue him so little.
How shall I doate on her with more aduice,
That thus without aduice begin to loue her?
'Tis but her picture I haue yet beheld,
And that hath dazel'd my reasons light:
But when I looke on her perfections,
There is no reason, but I shall be blinde.
If I can checke my erring loue, I will,
If not, to compasse her Ile vse my skill.
Enter Speed and Launce.
Speed. Launce, by mine honesty welcome to Padua
Laun. Forsweare not thy selfe, sweet youth, for I am
not welcome. I reckon this alwaies, that a man is neuer
vndon till hee be hang'd, nor neuer welcome to a place,
till some certaine shot be paid, and the Hostesse say welcome
Speed. Come-on you mad-cap: Ile to the Ale-house
with you presently; where, for one shot of fiue pence,
thou shalt haue fiue thousand welcomes: But sirha, how
did thy Master part with Madam Iulia?
Lau. Marry after they cloas'd in earnest, they parted
very fairely in iest
 Spee. But shall she marry him?
 Spee. How then? shall he marry her?
 Lau. No, neither
 Spee. What, are they broken?
 Lau. No; they are both as whole as a fish
 Spee. Why then, how stands the matter with them?
 Lau. Marry thus, when it stands well with him, it
stands well with her
Spee. What an asse art thou, I vnderstand thee not
 Lau. What a blocke art thou, that thou canst not?
My staffe vnderstands me?
 Spee. What thou saist?
 Lau. I, and what I do too: looke thee, Ile but leane,
and my staffe vnderstands me
Spee. It stands vnder thee indeed
Lau. Why, stand-vnder: and vnder-stand is all one
 Spee. But tell me true, wil't be a match?
 Lau. Aske my dogge, if he say I, it will: if hee say
no, it will: if hee shake his taile, and say nothing, it
will
Spee. The conclusion is then, that it will
 Lau. Thou shalt neuer get such a secret from me, but
by a parable
 Spee. 'Tis well that I get it so: but Launce, how saist
thou that that my master is become a notable Louer?
 Lau. I neuer knew him otherwise
 Spee. Then how?
 Lau. A notable Lubber: as thou reportest him to
bee
 Spee. Why, thou whorson Asse, thou mistak'st me,
 Lau. Why Foole, I meant not thee, I meant thy
Spee. I tell thee, my Master is become a hot Louer
Lau. Why, I tell thee, I care not, though hee burne
himselfe in Loue. If thou wilt goe with me to the Alehouse:
if not, thou art an Hebrew, a Iew, and not worth
the name of a Christian
 Spee. Why?
 Lau. Because thou hast not so much charity in thee as
to goe to the Ale with a Christian: Wilt thou goe?
 Spee. At thy seruice.
Enter Protheus solus.
 Pro. To leaue my Iulia; shall I be forsworne?
To loue faire Siluia; shall I be forsworne?
To wrong my friend, I shall be much forsworne.
And ev'n that Powre which gaue me first my oath
Prouokes me to this three-fold periurie.
Loue bad mee sweare, and Loue bids me for-sweare;
O sweet-suggesting Loue, if thou hast sin'd,
Teach me (thy tempted subiect) to excuse it.
At first I did adore a twinkling Starre,
But now I worship a celestiall Sunne:
Vn-heedfull vowes may heedfully be broken,
And he wants wit, that wants resolued will,
To learne his wit, t' exchange the bad for better;
Fie, fie, vnreuerend tongue, to call her bad,
Whose soueraignty so oft thou hast preferd,
With twenty thousand soule-confirming oathes.
I cannot leaue to loue; and yet I doe:
But there I leaue to loue, where I should loue.
Iulia I loose, and Valentine I loose,
If I keepe them, I needs must loose my selfe:
If I loose them, thus finde I by their losse,
For Valentine, my selfe: for Iulia, Siluia.
I to my selfe am deerer then a friend,
For Loue is still most precious in it selfe,
And Siluia (witnesse heauen that made her faire)
Shewes Iulia but a swarthy Ethiope.
I will forget that Iulia is aliue,
Remembring that my Loue to her is dead.
And Valentine Ile hold an Enemie,
Ayming at Siluia as a sweeter friend.
I cannot now proue constant to my selfe,
Without some treachery vs'd to Valentine.
This night he meaneth with a Corded-ladder
To climbe celestiall Siluia's chamber window,
My selfe in counsaile his competitor.
Now presently Ile giue her father notice
Of their disguising and pretended flight:
Who (all inrag'd) will banish Valentine:
For Thurio he intends shall wed his daughter,
But Valentine being gon, Ile quickely crosse
By some slie tricke, blunt Thurio's dull proceeding.
Loue lend me wings, to make my purpose swift
As thou hast lent me wit, to plot this drift.
Enter Iulia and Lucetta.
 Iul. Counsaile, Lucetta, gentle girle assist me,
And eu'n in kinde loue, I doe coniure thee,
Who art the Table wherein all my thoughts
Are visibly Character'd, and engrau'd,
To lesson me, and tell me some good meane
How with my honour I may vndertake
A iourney to my louing Protheus
Luc. Alas, the way is wearisome and long
 Iul. A true-deuoted Pilgrime is not weary
To measure Kingdomes with his feeble steps,
Much lesse shall she that hath Loues wings to flie,
And when the flight is made to one so deere,
Of such diuine perfection as Sir Protheus
Luc. Better forbeare, till Protheus make returne
 Iul. Oh, know'st y not, his looks are my soules food?
Pitty the dearth that I haue pined in,
By longing for that food so long a time.
Didst thou but know the inly touch of Loue,
Thou wouldst as soone goe kindle fire with snow
As seeke to quench the fire of Loue with words
 Luc. I doe not seeke to quench your Loues hot fire,
But qualifie the fires extreame rage,
Lest it should burne aboue the bounds of reason
 Iul. The more thou dam'st it vp, the more it burnes:
