Would I admit: No name of Magistrate:
Letters should not be knowne: Riches, pouerty,
And vse of seruice, none: Contract, Succession,
Borne, bound of Land, Tilth, Vineyard none:
No vse of Mettall, Corne, or Wine, or Oyle:
No occupation, all men idle, all:
And Women too, but innocent and pure:
Seb. Yet he would be King on't
 Ant. The latter end of his Common-wealth forgets
the beginning
 Gon. All things in common Nature should produce
Without sweat or endeuour: Treason, fellony,
Sword, Pike, Knife, Gun, or neede of any Engine
Would I not haue: but Nature should bring forth
Of it owne kinde, all foyzon, all abundance
To feed my innocent people
Seb. No marrying 'mong his subiects?
Ant. None man all idle; Whores and knaues,
 Gon. I would with such perfection gouerne Sir:
Ant. Long liue Gonzalo
Gon. And do you marke me, Sir?
Alon. Pre-thee no more: thou dost talke nothing to me
Gon. I do well beleeue your Highnesse, and did it
to minister occasion to these Gentlemen, who are of
such sensible and nimble Lungs, that they alwayes vse
to laugh at nothing
Ant. 'Twas you we laugh'd at
Gon. Who, in this kind of merry fooling am nothing
to you: so you may continue, and laugh at nothing still
Ant. What a blow was there giuen?
Seb. And it had not falne flat-long
Gon. You are Gentlemen of braue mettal: you would
lift the Moone out of her spheare, if she would continue
in it fiue weekes without changing.
Enter Ariell playing solemne Musicke.
Seb. We would so, and then go a Bat-fowling
Ant. Nay good my Lord, be not angry
Gon. No I warrant you, I will not aduenture my
discretion so weakly: Will you laugh me asleepe, for I
am very heauy
Ant. Go sleepe, and heare vs
 Alon. What, all so soone asleepe? I wish mine eyes
Would (with themselues) shut vp my thoughts,
I finde they are inclin'd to do so
 Seb. Please you Sir,
Do not omit the heauy offer of it:
It sildome visits sorrow, when it doth, it is a Comforter
 Ant. We two my Lord, will guard your person,
While you take your rest, and watch your safety
Alon. Thanke you: Wondrous heauy
Seb. What a strange drowsines possesses them?
Ant. It is the quality o'th' Clymate
Doth it not then our eye-lids sinke? I finde
Not my selfe dispos'd to sleep
 Ant. Nor I, my spirits are nimble:
They fell together all, as by consent
They dropt, as by a Thunder-stroke: what might
Worthy Sebastian? O, what might? no more:
And yet, me thinkes I see it in thy face,
What thou should'st be: th' occasion speaks thee, and
My strong imagination see's a Crowne
Dropping vpon thy head
Seb. What? art thou waking?
Ant. Do you not heare me speake?
 Seb. I do, and surely
It is a sleepy Language; and thou speak'st
Out of thy sleepe: What is it thou didst say?
This is a strange repose, to be asleepe
With eyes wide open: standing, speaking, mouing:
And yet so fast asleepe
 Ant. Noble Sebastian,
Thou let'st thy fortune sleepe: die rather: wink'st
Whiles thou art waking
 Seb. Thou do'st snore distinctly,
There's meaning in thy snores
 Ant. I am more serious then my custome: you
Must be so too, if heed me: which to do,
Trebbles thee o're
Seb. Well: I am standing water
Ant. Ile teach you how to flow
 Seb. Do so: to ebbe
Hereditary Sloth instructs me
 Ant. O!
If you but knew how you the purpose cherish
Whiles thus you mocke it: how in stripping it
You more inuest it: ebbing men, indeed
(Most often) do so neere the bottome run
By their owne feare, or sloth
 Seb. 'Pre-thee say on,
The setting of thine eye, and cheeke proclaime
A matter from thee; and a birth, indeed,
Which throwes thee much to yeeld
 Ant. Thus Sir:
Although this Lord of weake remembrance; this
Who shall be of as little memory
When he is earth'd, hath here almost perswaded
(For hee's a Spirit of perswasion, onely
Professes to perswade) the King his sonne's aliue,
'Tis as impossible that hee's vndrown'd,
As he that sleepes heere, swims
 Seb. I haue no hope
That hee's vndrown'd
 Ant. O, out of that no hope,
What great hope haue you? No hope that way, Is
Another way so high a hope, that euen
Ambition cannot pierce a winke beyond
But doubt discouery there. Will you grant with me
That Ferdinand is drown'd
Seb. He's gone
Ant. Then tell me, who's the next heire of Naples?
 Ant. She that is Queene of Tunis: she that dwels
Ten leagues beyond mans life: she that from Naples
Can haue no note, vnlesse the Sun were post:
The Man i'th Moone's too slow, till new-borne chinnes
Be rough, and Razor-able: She that from whom
We all were sea-swallow'd, though some cast againe,
(And by that destiny) to performe an act
Whereof, what's past is Prologue; what to come
In yours, and my discharge
 Seb. What stuffe is this? How say you?
'Tis true my brothers daughter's Queene of Tunis,
So is she heyre of Naples, 'twixt which Regions
There is some space
 Ant. A space, whose eu'ry cubit
Seemes to cry out, how shall that Claribell
Measure vs backe to Naples? keepe in Tunis,
And let Sebastian wake. Say, this were death
That now hath seiz'd them, why they were no worse
Then now they are: There be that can rule Naples
As well as he that sleepes: Lords, that can prate
As amply, and vnnecessarily
As this Gonzallo: I my selfe could make
A Chough of as deepe chat: O, that you bore
The minde that I do; what a sleepe were this
For your aduancement? Do you vnderstand me?
Seb. Me thinkes I do
 Ant. And how do's your content
Tender your owne good fortune?
 Seb. I remember
You did supplant your Brother Prospero
 Ant. True:
