Your louing Brother
Philip Sidnei.
He diuision and summing of the Chapters was not of Sir Philip Sidneis dooing, but aduentured by the ouer-seer of the print, for the more ease of the Readers.
He therfore submits himselfe to their iudgement, and if his labour answere not the worthines of the booke, desireth pardon for it.
As also if any defect be found in the Eclogues, which although they were of Sir Phillip Sidneis writing, yet were they not perused by him, but left till the worke had bene finished, that then choise should haue bene made, which should haue bene taken, and in what manner brought in.
At this time they haue bene chosen and disposed as the ouer-seer thought best.
Y
1 The shepherdish complaints of the absented louers Strephon
and Claius. 2 The second shipwrack of Pyrocles and
Musidorus.
Their strange sauing, 3 enteruiew, and
 4 parting.
T was in the time that the earth begins to put on her new apparel against
the approach of her louer, and that the Sun running a most euen course becums an indifferent arbiter betweene the night and the day; when the hopelesse shepheard Strephon was come to the sandes, which lie against the Island of Cithera; where viewing the place with a heauy kinde of delight, and sometimes casting his eyes to the Ileward, he called his friendly riuall, the pastor Claius vnto him, and setting first downe in his darkened countenance a dolefull copie of what he would speake: O my Claius, said he, hether we are now come to pay the rent, for which we are so called vnto by ouer-busie Remembrance, restlesse Remembrance, which claymes not onely this dutie of vs, but for it will haue vs forget our selues.
I pray you when wee were amid our flocke, and that of other shepeheardes some were running after their sheep strayed beyond their bounds, some delighting their eyes with seeing them nibble vpon the short and sweete grasse, some medicining their sick ewes, some setting a bell for an ensigne of a sheepish squadron, some with more leasure inuenting new games of exercising their bodies & sporting their wits: did Remembrance grount vs any holiday, eyther for pastime or deuotion, nay either for necessary foode or naturall rest? but that still it forced our thoughts to worke vpon this place, where we last (alas that the word last should so long last) did gaze our eyes vpon her euer flourishing beautie: did it not still crie within vs?
Ah you base minded wretches, are your thoughts so deeply bemired in the trade of ordinary worldlings, as for respect of gaine some paultry wooll may yeeld you, to let so much time passe without knowing perfectly her estate, especially in so troublesome a season? to leaue that shore vnsaluted, from whence you may see to the Island where she dwelleth? to leaue those steps vnkissed wherein Vrania printed the farewell of all beautie?
Wel then, Remembraunce commaunded, we obeyed, and here we finde, that as our remembraunce came euer cloathed vnto vs in the forme of this place, so this place giues newe heate to the feauer of our languishing remembrance.
Yonder my Claius, Vrania lighted, the verie horse (me thought) bewayled to be so disburdened: and as for thee, poore Claius, when thou wentst to help her downe, I saw reuerence and desire so deuide thee, that thou didst at one instant both blushe and quake, and in stead of bearing her, weart ready to fall downe thy selfe.
There shee sate, vouchsafing my cloake (then most gorgeous) vnder her: at yonder rising of the ground she turned her selfe, looking backe toward her woonted abode, and because of her parting bearing much sorrow in hir eyes, the lightsomnes whereof had yet so naturall a cherefulnesse, as it made euen sorrow seeme to smile; at that turning she spake vnto vs all, opening the cherrie of hir lips, & Lord how greedily mine eares did feed vpon the sweete words she vttered?
And here she laide her hand ouer thine eyes, when shee saw the teares springing in them, as if she would conceale them from other, and yet her selfe feele some of thy sorrow: But woe is me, yonder, yonder, did she put her foote into the boate, at that instant as it were deuiding her heauenly beautie, betweene the Earth and the Sea.
But when she was imbarked, did you not marke how the windes whistled, & the seas daunst for ioy, how the sailes did swel with pride, and all because they had Vrania?
O Vrania, blessed be thou Vrania, the sweetest fairenesse and fairest sweetenesse: with that worde his voice brake so with sobbing, that he could say no further; and Claius thus answered.
Alas my Strephon (said he) what needes this skore to recken vp onely our losses?
What doubt is there, but that the light of this place doth call our thoughtes to appeare at the court of affection, held by that racking steward, Remembraunce?
Aswell may sheepe forget to feare when they spie woolues, as wee can misse such fancies, when wee see any place made happie by her treading.
Who can choose that saw her but thinke where she stayed, where she walkt, where she turned, where she spoke?
But what is all this? truely no more, but as this place serued vs to thinke of those thinges, so those thinges serue as places to call to memorie more excellent matters.
No, no, let vs thinke with consideration, and consider with acknowledging, and acknowledge with admiration, and admire with loue, and loue with ioy in the midst of all woes: let vs in such sorte thinke, I say, that our poore eyes were so inriched as to behold, and our low hearts so exalted as to loue, a maide, who is such, that as the greatest thing the world can shewe, is her beautie, so the least thing that may be prayed in her, is her beautie.
