Fal. Mistris Ford, by my troth you are very wel met:
by your leaue good Mistris
Mr.Page. Wife, bid these gentlemen welcome: come,
we haue a hot Venison pasty to dinner; Come gentlemen,
I hope we shall drinke downe all vnkindnesse
Slen. I had rather then forty shillings I had my booke
of Songs and Sonnets heere: How now Simple, where
haue you beene? I must wait on my selfe, must I? you
haue not the booke of Riddles about you, haue you?
Sim. Booke of Riddles? why did you not lend it to
Alice Short-cake vpon Alhallowmas last, a fortnight afore
Shal. Come Coz, come Coz, we stay for you: a word
with you Coz: marry this, Coz: there is as 'twere a tender,
a kinde of tender, made a farre-off by Sir Hugh here:
doe you vnderstand me?
Slen. I Sir, you shall finde me reasonable; if it be so,
I shall doe that that is reason
Shal. Nay, but vnderstand me
Euan. Giue eare to his motions; (Mr. Slender) I will
description the matter to you, if you be capacity of it
Slen. Nay, I will doe as my Cozen Shallow saies: I
pray you pardon me, he's a Iustice of Peace in his Countrie,
simple though I stand here
Euan. But that is not the question: the question is
concerning your marriage
Shal. I, there's the point Sir
Eu. Marry is it: the very point of it, to Mistris. An Page
Slen. Why if it be so; I will marry her vpon any reasonable
demands
Eu. But can you affection the 'oman, let vs command
to know that of your mouth, or of your lips: for diuers
Philosophers hold, that the lips is parcell of the mouth:
therfore precisely, can you carry your good wil to y maid?
Sh. Cosen Abraham Slender, can you loue her?
Slen. I hope sir, I will do as it shall become one that
would doe reason
 Eu. Nay, got's Lords, and his Ladies, you must speake
possitable, if you can carry-her your desires towards her
 Shal. That you must:
Will you, (vpon good dowry) marry her?
 Slen. I will doe a greater thing then that, vpon your
request (Cosen) in any reason
Shal. Nay conceiue me, conceiue mee, (sweet Coz):
What I doe is to pleasure you (Coz:) can you loue the
maid?
Slen. I will marry her Sir at your request; but if
there bee no great loue in the beginning, yet Heauen
may decrease it vpon better acquaintance, when wee
are married, and haue more occasion to know one another:
I hope vpon familiarity will grow more content:
but if you say mary-her, I will mary-her, that I am freely
dissolued, and dissolutely
Eu. It is a fery discretion-answere; saue the fall is in
the 'ord, dissolutely: the ort is (according to our meaning)
resolutely: his meaning is good
Sh. I: I thinke my Cosen meant well
 Sl. I, or else I would I might be hang'd (la.)
 Sh. Here comes faire Mistris Anne; would I were
yong for your sake, Mistris Anne
 An. The dinner is on the Table, my Father desires
your worships company
 Sh. I will wait on him, (faire Mistris Anne.)
 Eu. Od's plessed-wil: I wil not be absence at the grace
 An. Wil't please your worship to come in, Sir?
 Sl. No, I thank you forsooth, hartely; I am very well
An. The dinner attends you, Sir
 Sl. I am not a-hungry, I thanke you, forsooth: goe,
Sirha, for all you are my man, goe wait vpon my Cosen
Shallow: a Iustice of peace sometime may be beholding
to his friend, for a Man; I keepe but three Men, and a
Boy yet, till my Mother be dead: but what though, yet
I liue like a poore Gentleman borne
 An. I may not goe in without your worship: they
will not sit till you come
 Sl. I' faith, ile eate nothing: I thanke you as much as
though I did
An. I pray you Sir walke in
Sl. I had rather walke here (I thanke you) I bruiz'd
my shin th' other day, with playing at Sword and Dagger
with a Master of Fence (three veneys for a dish of
stew'd Prunes) and by my troth, I cannot abide the smell
of hot meate since. Why doe your dogs barke so? be
there Beares ith' Towne?
An. I thinke there are, Sir, I heard them talk'd of
 Sl. I loue the sport well, but I shall as soone quarrell
at it, as any man in England: you are afraid if you see the
Beare loose, are you not?
 An. I indeede Sir
Sl. That's meate and drinke to me now: I haue seene
Saskerson loose, twenty times, and haue taken him by the
Chaine: but (I warrant you) the women haue so cride
and shrekt at it, that it past: But women indeede, cannot
abide 'em, they are very ill-fauour'd rough things
Ma.Pa. Come, gentle Master. Slender, come; we stay for you
Sl. Ile eate nothing, I thanke you Sir
Ma.Pa. By cocke and pie, you shall not choose, Sir:
come, come
Sl. Nay, pray you lead the way
Sl. Mistris Anne: your selfe shall goe first
An. Not I Sir, pray you keepe on
Sl. Truely I will not goe first: truely-la: I will not
doe you that wrong
An. I pray you Sir
Sl. Ile rather be vnmannerly, then troublesome: you
doe your selfe wrong indeede-la.
Enter Euans, and Simple.
Eu. Go your waies, and aske of Doctor Caius house,
which is the way; and there dwels one Mistris Quickly;
which is in the manner of his Nurse; or his dry-Nurse; or
his Cooke; or his Laundry; his Washer, and his Ringer
Eu. Nay, it is petter yet: giue her this letter; for it is
a 'oman that altogeathers acquaintance with Mistris Anne
Page; and the Letter is to desire, and require her to solicite
your Masters desires, to Mistris Anne Page: I pray
you be gon: I will make an end of my dinner; ther's Pippins
and Cheese to come.
