These kind of soothsayers (since they haue left vs in our selues sufficient guides) to be nothing but fansie, wherein there must either be vanitie, or infalliblenes, & so, either not to be respected, or not to be preuented.
But since it is weaknes too much to remember what should haue been done, and that your commandement stretcheth to know what is to be done, I do (most deare Lord) with humble boldnes say, that the maner of your determination dooth in no sort better please me, then the cause of your going.
These thirtie yeares you haue so gouerned this Region, that neither your Subiectes haue wanted iustice in you, nor you obedience in them; & your neighbors haue found you so hurtlesly strong, that they thought it better to rest in your friendshippe, then make new triall of your enmitie.
If this then haue proceeded out of the good constitution of your state, and out of a wise prouidence, generally to preuent all those things, which might encomber your happines: why should you now seeke newe courses, since your owne ensample comforts you to continue, and that it is to me most certaine (though it please you not to tell me the very words of the Oracle) that yet no destinie, nor influence whatsoeuer, can bring mans witte to a higher point, then wisdome and goodnes?
Why should you depriue your selfe of gouernment, for feare of loosing your gouernment? like one that should kill himselfe for feare of death? nay rather, if this Oracle be to be accounted of, arme vp your courage the more against it: for who wil stick to him that abandones himselfe?
Let your subiectes haue you in their eyes; let them see the benefites of your iustice dayly more and more; and so must they needes rather like of present sureties, then vncertaine changes.
Lastly, whether your time call you to liue or die, doo both like a prince.
Now for your second resolution; which is, to suffer no worthie prince to be a suiter to either of your daughters, but while you liue to keep them both vnmaried; &, as it were, to kill the ioy of posteritie, which in your time you may enioy: moued perchance by a mis-understoode Oracle: what shall I say, if the affection of a father to his owne children, cannot plead sufficiently against such fancies? once certaine it is, the God, which is the God of nature, doth neuer teach vnnaturalnes: and euen the same minde hold I touching your banishing them from companie, least, I know not what strange loues should follow: Certainly Sir, in my ladies, your daughters, nature promiseth nothing but goodnes, and their education by your fatherly care, hath beene most fit to restraine all euill: geuing their mindes vertuous delights, and not greeuing them, for want of wel-ruled libertie.
Now to fall a sodain straightning them, what can it doo but argue suspition, a thing no more vnpleasant, then vnsure, for the preseruing of vertue?
Leaue womens minds, the most vntamed that way of any: see whether any cage can pleae a bird? or whether a dogge grow not fiercer with tying? what dooth ielousie, but stirre vp the mind to thinke, what it is from which they are restained? for they are treasures, or things of great delight, which men vse to hide, for the aptnesse they haue to catch mens fancies: and the thoughtes once awaked to that, harder sure it is to keepe those thoughts from accomplishment, then had it been before to haue kept the minde (which being the chife part, by this meanes is defiled) from thinking.
Lastly, for the recommending so pricipall a charge of the Princesse Pamela, (whose minde goes beyond the gouerning of many thousands such) to such a person as Dametas is (besides that the thing in it self is strange) it comes of a very euil ground, that ignorance should be the mother of faithfulnes.
O no; he cannot be good, that knowes not why he is good, but stands so farre good, as his fortune may keepe him vnassaid: but comming once to that, his rude simplicitie is either easily changed, or easily deceiued: & so growes that to be the last excuse of his fault, which seemed to haue been the first foundation of his faith.
Thus farre hath your commaundement and my zeale drawn me; which I, like a man in a valley that may discern hilles, or like a poore passenger that may spie a rock, so humbly submit to your gracious consideration, beseeching you againe, to stand wholy vpon your own vertue, as the surest way to maintaine you in that you are; and to auoyd any euill which may be imagined.
 By the contents of this letter you may perceiue, that the cause of all, hath beene the vanitie which possesseth many, who (making a perpetuall mansion of this poore baiting place of mans life) are desirous to know the certaintie of things to come; wherein there is nothing so certaine, as our continuall vncertaintie.
But what in particular points the oracle was, in faith I know not: nether (as you may see by one place of Philanax letter) he himselfe distinctly knew.
But this experience shewes vs, that Basilius iudgement, corrupted with a Princes fortune, hath rather heard then followed the wise (as I take it) counsell of Philanax.
For, hauing lost the sterne of his gouernment, with much amazement to the people, among whom mnay strange bruits are receiued for currant, and with some apparance of daunger in respect of the valiant Amphalus, his nephew, & much enuy in the ambitious number of the Nobilitie against Philanax, to see Philanax so aduaunced, though (to speake simply) he deserue more then as many of vs as there be in Arcadia: the prince himself hath hidden his head, in such sort as I told you, not sticking plainly to confesse, that he means not (while he breathes) that his daughters shal haue any husband, but keep them thus solitary with him: wher he giues no other body leue
to visit him at any time, but a certain priest, who being excellent in poetrie, he makes him write out such thinges as be best likes, he being no les delightful in conuersation, then needfull for deuotion, & about twenty specified shepheards, in whom (some foe exercises, & some for Eglogs) he taketh greater recreation.
