Muse not that I thus sodainly proceed;
For what I will, I will, and there an end:
I am resolu'd, that thou shalt spend some time
With Valentinus, in the Emperors Court:
What maintenance he from his friends receiues,
Like exhibition thou shalt haue from me,
To morrow be in readinesse, to goe,
Excuse it not: for I am peremptory
 Pro. My Lord I cannot be so soone prouided,
Please you deliberate a day or two
 Ant. Look what thou want'st shalbe sent after thee:
No more of stay: to morrow thou must goe;
Come on Panthino; you shall be imployd,
To hasten on his Expedition
 Pro. Thus haue I shund the fire, for feare of burning,
And drench'd me in the sea, where I am drown'd.
I fear'd to shew my Father Iulias Letter,
Least he should take exceptions to my loue,
And with the vantage of mine owne excuse
Hath he excepted most against my loue.
Oh, how this spring of loue resembleth
The vncertaine glory of an Aprill day,
Which now shewes all the beauty of the Sun,
And by and by a clowd takes all away
 Pan. Sir Protheus, your Fathers call's for you,
He is in hast, therefore I pray you go
 Pro. Why this it is: my heart accords thereto,
And yet a thousand times it answer's no.
Exeunt. Finis.
Speed. Sir, your Gloue
Valen. Not mine: my Gloues are on
Sp. Why then this may be yours: for this is but one
 Val. Ha? Let me see: I, giue it me, it's mine:
Sweet Ornament, that deckes a thing diuine,
 Val. How now Sirha?
 Speed. Shee is not within hearing Sir
 Val. Why sir, who bad you call her?
 Speed. Your worship sir, or else I mistooke
Val. Well: you'll still be too forward
Speed. And yet I was last chidden for being too slow
Val. Goe to, sir, tell me: do you know Madam Siluia?
Speed. Shee that your worship loues?
Val. Why, how know you that I am in loue?
Speed. Marry by these speciall markes: first, you haue
learn'd (like Sir Protheus) to wreath your Armes like a
Male-content: to rellish a Loue-song, like a Robin-redbreast:
to walke alone like one that had the pestilence:
to sigh, like a Schoole-boy that had lost his A.B.C. to
weep like a yong wench that had buried her Grandam:
to fast, like one that takes diet: to watch, like one that
feares robbing: to speake puling, like a beggar at Hallow-Masse:
You were wont, when you laughed, to crow
like a cocke; when you walk'd, to walke like one of the
Lions: when you fasted, it was presently after dinner:
when you look'd sadly, it was for want of money: And
now you are Metamorphis'd with a Mistris, that when I
looke on you, I can hardly thinke you my Master
 Val. Are all these things perceiu'd in me?
 Speed. They are all perceiu'd without ye
Val. Without me? they cannot
Speed. Without you? nay, that's certaine: for without
you were so simple, none else would: but you are
so without these follies, that these follies are within you,
and shine through you like the water in an Vrinall: that
not an eye that sees you, but is a Physician to comment
on your Malady
 Val. But tell me: do'st thou know my Lady Siluia?
 Speed. Shee that you gaze on so, as she sits at supper?
 Val. Hast thou obseru'd that? euen she I meane
Speed. Why sir, I know her not
 Val. Do'st thou know her by my gazing on her, and
yet know'st her not?
 Speed. Is she not hard-fauour'd, sir?
 Val. Not so faire boy as well fauour'd
Speed. Sir, I know that well enough
 Val. What dost thou know?
 Speed. That shee is not so faire, as (of you) well-fauourd?
 Val. I meane that her beauty is exquisite,
But her fauour infinite
 Speed. That's because the one is painted, and the other
out of all count
 Val. How painted? and how out of count?
 Speed. Marry sir, so painted to make her faire, that no
man counts of her beauty
Val. How esteem'st thou me? I account of her beauty
Speed. You neuer saw her since she was deform'd
 Val. How long hath she beene deform'd?
 Speed. Euer since you lou'd her
 Val. I haue lou'd her euer since I saw her,
And still I see her beautifull
Speed. If you loue her, you cannot see her
 Val. Why?
 Speed. Because Loue is blinde: O that you had mine
eyes, or your owne eyes had the lights they were wont
to haue, when you chidde at Sir Protheus, for going vngarter'd
Val. What should I see then?
Speed. Your owne present folly, and her passing deformitie:
for hee beeing in loue, could not see to garter
his hose; and you, beeing in loue, cannot see to put on
your hose
 Val. Belike boy then you are in loue, for last morning
You could not see to wipe my shooes
Speed. True sir: I was in loue with my bed, I thanke
you, you swing'd me for my loue, which makes mee the
bolder to chide you, for yours
Val. In conclusion, I stand affected to her
 Speed. I would you were set, so your affection would
cease
 Val. Last night she enioyn'd me,
To write some lines to one she loues
 Speed. And haue you?
 Val. I haue
 Speed. Are they not lamely writt?
 Val. No Boy but as well as I can do them:
Peace, here she comes
 Speed. Oh excellent motion; oh exceeding Puppet:
Now will he interpret to her
Val. Madam & Mistres, a thousand good-morrows
Speed. Oh, 'giue ye-good-ev'n: heer's a million of
manners
Sil. Sir Valentine, and seruant, to you two thousand
Speed. He should giue her interest: & she giues it him
 Val. As you inioynd me; I haue writ your Letter
Vnto the secret, nameles friend of yours:
Which I was much vnwilling to proceed in,
But for my duty to your Ladiship
Sil. I thanke you (gentle Seruant) 'tis very Clerklydone
 Val. Now trust me (Madam) it came hardly-off:
