Pist. He hath studied her will; and translated her will:
out of honesty, into English
 Ni. The Anchor is deepe: will that humor passe?
 Fal. Now, the report goes, she has all the rule of her
husbands Purse: he hath a legend of Angels
Pist. As many diuels entertaine: and to her Boy say I
Ni. The humor rises: it is good: humor me the angels
Fal. I haue writ me here a letter to her: & here another
to Pages wife, who euen now gaue mee good eyes
too; examind my parts with most iudicious illiads: sometimes
the beame of her view, guilded my foote: sometimes
my portly belly
Pist. Then did the Sun on dung-hill shine
Ni. I thanke thee for that humour
Fal. O she did so course o're my exteriors with such
a greedy intention, that the appetite of her eye, did seeme
to scorch me vp like a burning-glasse: here's another
letter to her: She beares the Purse too: She is a Region
in Guiana: all gold, and bountie: I will be Cheaters to
them both, and they shall be Exchequers to mee: they
shall be my East and West Indies, and I will trade to
them both: Goe, beare thou this Letter to Mistris Page;
and thou this to Mistris Ford: we will thriue Lads we
will thriue
 Pist. Shall I Sir Pandarus of Troy become,
And by my side weare Steele? then Lucifer take all
 Ni. I will run no base humor: here take the humor-Letter;
I will keepe the hauior of reputation
 Fal. Hold Sirha, beare you these Letters tightly,
Saile like my Pinnasse to these golden shores.
Rogues, hence, auaunt, vanish like haile-stones; goe,
Trudge; plod away ith' hoofe: seeke shelter, packe:
Falstaffe will learne the honor of the age,
French-thrift, you Rogues, my selfe, and skirted Page
 Pist. Let Vultures gripe thy guts: for gourd, and
Fullam holds: & high and low beguiles the rich & poore,
Tester ile haue in pouch when thou shalt lacke,
 Ni. I haue opperations,
Which be humors of reuenge
 Pist. Wilt thou reuenge?
 Pist. With wit, or Steele?
 Ni. With both the humors, I:
I will discusse the humour of this Loue to Ford
 Pist. And I to Page shall eke vnfold
How Falstaffe (varlet vile)
His Doue will proue; his gold will hold,
And his soft couch defile
Ni. My humour shall not coole: I will incense Ford
to deale with poyson: I will possesse him with yallownesse,
for the reuolt of mine is dangerous: that is my
true humour
Pist. Thou art the Mars of Malecontents: I second
thee: troope on.
Enter Mistris Quickly, Simple, Iohn Rugby, Doctor, Caius, Fenton.
Qu. What, Iohn Rugby, I pray thee goe to the Casement,
and see if you can see my Master, Master Docter
Caius comming: if he doe (I' faith) and finde any body
in the house; here will be an old abusing of Gods patience,
and the Kings English
Ru. Ile goe watch
Qu. Goe, and we'll haue a posset for't soone at night,
(in faith) at the latter end of a Sea-cole-fire: An honest,
willing, kinde fellow, as euer seruant shall come in house
withall: and I warrant you, no tel-tale, nor no breedebate:
his worst fault is, that he is giuen to prayer; hee is
something peeuish that way: but no body but has his
fault: but let that passe. Peter Simple, you say your
name is?
Si. I: for fault of a better
 Qu. And Master Slender's your Master?
 Si. I forsooth
 Qu. Do's he not weare a great round Beard, like a
Glouers pairing-knife?
 Si. No forsooth: he hath but a little wee-face; with
a little yellow Beard: a Caine colourd Beard
 Qu. A softly-sprighted man, is he not?
 Si. I forsooth: but he is as tall a man of his hands, as
any is betweene this and his head: he hath fought with
a Warrener
 Qu. How say you: oh, I should remember him: do's
he not hold vp his head (as it were?) and strut in his gate?
 Si. Yes indeede do's he
 Qu. Well, heauen send Anne Page, no worse fortune:
Tell Master Parson Euans, I will doe what I can for your
Master: Anne is a good girle, and I wish -
 Ru. Out alas: here comes my Master
Qu. We shall all be shent: Run in here, good young
man: goe into this Closset: he will not stay long: what
Iohn Rugby? Iohn: what Iohn I say? goe Iohn, goe enquire
for my Master, I doubt he be not well, that hee
comes not home: (and downe, downe, adowne'a. &c
Ca. Vat is you sing? I doe not like des-toyes: pray
you goe and vetch me in my Closset, vnboyteere verd;
a Box, a greene-a-Box: do intend vat I speake? a greene-a-Box
Qu. I forsooth ile fetch it you:
I am glad hee went not in himselfe: if he had found the
yong man he would haue bin horne-mad
 Ca. Fe, fe, fe, fe, mai foy, il fait for ehando, Ie man voi a le
Court la grand affaires
 Qu. Is it this Sir?
 Ca. Ouy mette le au mon pocket, depeech quickly:
Vere is dat knaue Rugby?
 Qu. What Iohn Rugby, Iohn?
Ca. You are Iohn Rugby, and you are Iacke Rugby:
Come, take-a-your Rapier, and come after my heele to
the Court
Ru. 'Tis ready Sir, here in the Porch
Ca. By my trot: I tarry too long: od's-me: que ay ie
oublie: dere is some Simples in my Closset, dat I vill not
for the varld I shall leaue behinde
Qu. Ay-me, he'll finde the yong man there, & be mad
 Ca. O Diable, Diable: vat is in my Closset?
Qu. Good Master be content
 Ca. Wherefore shall I be content-a?
 Qu. The yong man is an honest man
 Ca. What shall de honest man do in my Closset: dere
is no honest man dat shall come in my Closset
Qu. I beseech you be not so flegmaticke: heare the
truth of it. He came of an errand to mee, from Parson
 Si. I forsooth: to desire her to -
 Qu. Peace, I pray you
Ca. Peace-a-your tongue: speake-a-your Tale
Si. To desire this honest Gentlewoman (your Maid)
to speake a good word to Mistris Anne Page, for my Master
in the way of Marriage
 Qu. This is all indeede-la: but ile nere put my finger
in the fire, and neede not
 Ca. Sir Hugh send-a you? Rugby, ballow mee some
paper: tarry you a littell-a-while
Qui. I am glad he is so quiet: if he had bin throughly
moued, you should haue heard him so loud, and so melancholly:
