Enter Ariell, loaden with glistering apparell, &c. Enter Caliban,
Stephano, and Trinculo, all wet.
 Cal. Pray you tread softly, that the blinde Mole may
not heare a foot fall: we now are neere his Cell
 St. Monster, your Fairy, w you say is a harmles Fairy,
Has done little better then plaid the Iacke with vs
 Trin. Monster, I do smell all horse-pisse, at which
My nose is in great indignation
 Ste. So is mine. Do you heare Monster: If I should
Take a displeasure against you: Looke you
Trin. Thou wert but a lost Monster
 Cal. Good my Lord, giue me thy fauour stil,
Be patient, for the prize Ile bring thee too
Shall hudwinke this mischance: therefore speake softly,
All's husht as midnight yet
Trin. I, but to loose our bottles in the Poole
 Ste. There is not onely disgrace and dishonor in that
Monster, but an infinite losse
 Tr. That's more to me then my wetting:
Yet this is your harmlesse Fairy, Monster
 Ste. I will fetch off my bottle,
Though I be o're eares for my labour
 Cal. Pre-thee (my King) be quiet. Seest thou heere
This is the mouth o'th Cell: no noise, and enter:
Do that good mischeefe, which may make this Island
Thine owne for euer, and I thy Caliban
For aye thy foot-licker
 Ste. Giue me thy hand,
I do begin to haue bloody thoughts
 Trin. O King Stephano, O Peere: O worthy Stephano,
Looke what a wardrobe heere is for thee
Cal. Let it alone thou foole, it is but trash
 Tri. Oh, ho, Monster: wee know what belongs to a
frippery, O King Stephano
 Ste. Put off that gowne (Trinculo) by this hand Ile
haue that gowne
Tri. Thy grace shall haue it
 Cal. The dropsie drowne this foole, what doe you meane
To doate thus on such luggage? let's alone
And doe the murther first: if he awake,
From toe to crowne hee'l fill our skins with pinches,
Make vs strange stuffe
Ste. Be you quiet (Monster) Mistris line, is not this
my Ierkin? how is the Ierkin vnder the line: now Ierkin
you are like to lose your haire, & proue a bald Ierkin
 Trin. Doe, doe; we steale by lyne and leuell, and't
like your grace
 Ste. I thank thee for that iest; heer's a garment for't:
Wit shall not goe vn-rewarded while I am King of this
Country: Steale by line and leuell, is an excellent passe
of pate: there's another garment for't
 Tri. Monster, come put some Lime vpon your fingers,
and away with the rest
 Cal. I will haue none on't: we shall loose our time,
And all be turn'd to Barnacles, or to Apes
With foreheads villanous low
Ste. Monster, lay to your fingers: helpe to beare this
away, where my hogshead of wine is, or Ile turne you
out of my kingdome: goe to, carry this
Tri. And this
Ste. I, and this.
A noyse of Hunters heard. Enter diuers Spirits in shape of Dogs
and
Hounds, hunting them about: Prospero and Ariel setting them on.
Ari. Siluer: there it goes, Siluer
 Pro. Fury, Fury: there Tyrant, there: harke, harke.
Goe, charge my Goblins that they grinde their ioynts
With dry Convultions, shorten vp their sinewes
With aged Cramps, & more pinch-spotted make them,
Ari. Harke, they rore
 Pro. Let them be hunted soundly: At this houre
Lies at my mercy all mine enemies:
Shortly shall all my labours end, and thou
Shalt haue the ayre at freedome: for a little
Follow, and doe me seruice.
Enter Prospero (in his Magicke robes) and Ariel.
 Pro. Now do's my Proiect gather to a head:
My charmes cracke not: my Spirits obey, and Time
Goes vpright with his carriage: how's the day?
 Ar. On the sixt hower, at which time, my Lord
You said our worke should cease
 Pro. I did say so,
When first I rais'd the Tempest: say my Spirit,
How fares the King, and's followers?
 Ar. Confin'd together
In the same fashion, as you gaue in charge,
Iust as you left them; all prisoners Sir
In the Line-groue which weather-fends your Cell,
They cannot boudge till your release: The King,
His Brother, and yours, abide all three distracted,
And the remainder mourning ouer them,
Brim full of sorrow, and dismay: but chiefly
Him that you term'd Sir, the good old Lord Gonzallo,
His teares runs downe his beard like winters drops
From eaues of reeds: your charm so strongly works 'em
That if you now beheld them, your affections
Would become tender
Pro. Dost thou thinke so, Spirit?
Ar. Mine would, Sir, were I humane
 Pro. And mine shall.
Hast thou (which art but aire) a touch, a feeling
Of their afflictions, and shall not my selfe,
One of their kinde, that rellish all as sharpely,
Passion as they, be kindlier mou'd then thou art?
Thogh with their high wrongs I am strook to th' quick,
Yet, with my nobler reason, gainst my furie
Doe I take part: the rarer Action is
In vertue, then in vengeance: they, being penitent,
The sole drift of my purpose doth extend
Not a frowne further: Goe, release them Ariell,
My Charmes Ile breake, their sences Ile restore,
And they shall be themselues
Ar. Ile fetch them, Sir.
 Pro. Ye Elues of hils, brooks, standing lakes & groues,
And ye, that on the sands with printlesse foote
Doe chase the ebbingNeptune, and doe flie him
When he comes backe: you demy-Puppets, that
By Moone-shine doe the greene sowre Ringlets make,
Whereof the Ewe not bites: and you, whose pastime
Is to make midnight-Mushrumps, that reioyce
To heare the solemne Curfewe, by whose ayde
(Weake Masters though ye be) I haue bedymn'd
The Noone-tide Sun, call'd forth the mutenous windes,
And twixt the greene Sea, and the azur'd vault
Set roaring warre: To the dread ratling Thunder
Haue I giuen fire, and rifted Ioues stowt Oke
With his owne Bolt: The strong bass'd promontorie
Haue I made shake, and by the spurs pluckt vp
The Pyne, and Cedar. Graues at my command
Haue wak'd their sleepers, op'd, and let 'em forth
By my so potent Art. But this rough Magicke
I heere abiure: and when I haue requir'd
Some heauenly Musicke (which euen now I do)
To worke mine end vpon their Sences, that
This Ayrie-charme is for, I'le breake my staffe,
Bury it certaine fadomes in the earth,
And deeper then did euer Plummet sound
Ile drowne my booke.
