Dare you presume to harbour wanton lines?
To whisper, and conspire against my youth?
Now trust me, 'tis an office of great worth,
And you an officer fit for the place:
There: take the paper: see it be return'd,
Or else returne no more into my sight
Lu. To plead for loue, deserues more fee, then hate
 Iul. Will ye be gon?
 Lu. That you may ruminate.
 Iul. And yet I would I had ore-look'd the Letter;
It were a shame to call her backe againe,
And pray her to a fault, for which I chid her.
What 'foole is she, that knowes I am a Maid,
And would not force the letter to my view?
Since Maides, in modesty, say no, to that,
Which they would haue the profferer construe, I.
Fie, fie: how way-ward is this foolish loue;
That (like a testie Babe) will scratch the Nurse,
And presently, all humbled kisse the Rod?
How churlishly, I chid Lucetta hence,
When willingly, I would haue had her here?
How angerly I taught my brow to frowne,
When inward ioy enforc'd my heart to smile?
My pennance is, to call Lucetta backe
And aske remission, for my folly past.
What hoe: Lucetta
 Lu. What would your Ladiship?
 Iul. Is't neere dinner time?
 Lu. I would it were,
That you might kill your stomacke on your meat,
And not vpon your Maid
 Iu. What is't that you
Tooke vp so gingerly?
 Iu. Why didst thou stoope then?
 Lu. To take a paper vp, that I let fall
 Iul. And is that paper nothing?
 Lu. Nothing concerning me
Iul. Then let it lye, for those that it concernes
 Lu. Madam, it will not lye where it concernes,
Vnlesse it haue a false Interpreter
Iul. Some loue of yours, hath writ to you in Rime
 Lu. That I might sing it (Madam) to a tune:
Giue me a Note, your Ladiship can set
 Iul. As little by such toyes, as may be possible:
Best sing it to the tune of Light O, Loue
Lu. It is too heauy for so light a tune
 Iu. Heauy? belike it hath some burden then?
 Lu. I: and melodious were it, would you sing it,
 Iu. And why not you?
 Lu. I cannot reach so high
 Iu. Let's see your Song:
How now Minion?
 Lu. Keepe tune there still; so you will sing it out:
And yet me thinkes I do not like this tune
 Iu. You doe not?
 Lu. No (Madam) tis too sharpe
Iu. You (Minion) are too saucie
 Lu. Nay, now you are too flat;
And marre the concord, with too harsh a descant:
There wanteth but a Meane to fill your Song
Iu. The meane is dround with you vnruly base
Lu. Indeede I bid the base for Protheus
 Iu. This babble shall not henceforth trouble me;
Here is a coile with protestation:
Goe, get you gone: and let the papers lye:
You would be fingring them, to anger me
 Lu. She makes it strange, but she would be best pleas'd
To be so angred with another Letter
 Iu. Nay, would I were so angred with the same:
Oh hatefull hands, to teare such louing words;
Iniurious Waspes, to feede on such sweet hony,
And kill the Bees that yeelde it, with your stings;
Ile kisse each seuerall paper, for amends:
Looke, here is writ, kinde Iulia: vnkinde Iulia,
As in reuenge of thy ingratitude,
I throw thy name against the bruzing-stones,
Trampling contemptuously on thy disdaine.
And here is writ, Loue wounded Protheus.
Poore wounded name: my bosome, as a bed,
Shall lodge thee till thy wound be throughly heal'd;
And thus I search it with a soueraigne kisse.
But twice, or thrice, was Protheus written downe:
Be calme (good winde) blow not a word away,
Till I haue found each letter, in the Letter,
Except mine own name: That, some whirle-winde beare
Vnto a ragged, fearefull, hanging Rocke,
And throw it thence into the raging Sea.
Loe, here in one line is his name twice writ:
Poore forlorne Protheus, passionate Protheus:
To the sweet Iulia: that ile teare away:
And yet I will not, sith so prettily
He couples it, to his complaining Names;
Thus will I fold them, one vpon another;
Now kisse, embrace, contend, doe what you will
Lu. Madam: dinner is ready: and your father staies
 Lu. What, shall these papers lye, like Tel-tales here?
 Iu. If you respect them; best to take them vp
 Lu. Nay, I was taken vp, for laying them downe.
Yet here they shall not lye, for catching cold
Iu. I see you haue a months minde to them
 Lu. I (Madam) you may say what sights you see;
I see things too, although you iudge I winke
Iu. Come, come, wilt please you goe.
Enter Antonio and Panthino. Protheus.
 Ant. Tell me Panthino, what sad talke was that,
Wherewith my brother held you in the Cloyster?
 Pan. 'Twas of his Nephew Protheus, your Sonne
 Ant. Why? what of him?
 Pan. He wondred that your Lordship
Would suffer him, to spend his youth at home,
While other men, of slender reputation
Put forth their Sonnes, to seeke preferment out.
Some to the warres, to try their fortune there;
Some, to discouer Islands farre away:
Some, to the studious Vniuersities;
For any, or for all these exercises,
He said, that Protheus, your sonne, was meet;
And did request me, to importune you
To let him spend his time no more at home;
Which would be great impeachment to his age,
In hauing knowne no trauaile in his youth
 Ant. Nor need'st thou much importune me to that
Whereon, this month I haue bin hamering.
I haue consider'd well, his losse of time,
And how he cannot be a perfect man,
Not being tryed, and tutord in the world:
Experience is by industry atchieu'd,
And perfected by the swift course of time:
Then tell me, whether were I best to send him?
 Pan. I thinke your Lordship is not ignorant
How his companion, youthfull Valentine,
Attends the Emperour in his royall Court
Ant. I know it well
 Pan. 'Twere good, I thinke, your Lordship sent him
(thither,
There shall he practise Tilts, and Turnaments;
