Val. Then know that I haue little wealth to loose;
A man I am, cross'd with aduersitie:
My riches, are these poore habiliments,
Of which, if you should here disfurnish me,
You take the sum and substance that I haue
 2.Out. Whether trauell you?
 1.Out. Whence came you?
 3.Out. Haue you long soiourn'd there?
 Val. Some sixteene moneths, and longer might haue staid,
If crooked fortune had not thwarted me
 1.Out. What, were you banish'd thence?
 2.Out. For what offence?
 Val. For that which now torments me to rehearse;
I kil'd a man, whose death I much repent,
But yet I slew him manfully, in fight,
Without false vantage, or base treachery
 1.Out. Why nere repent it, if it were done so;
But were you banisht for so small a fault?
 Val. I was, and held me glad of such a doome
 2.Out. Haue you the Tongues?
 Val. My youthfull trauaile, therein made me happy,
Or else I often had beene often miserable
 3.Out. By the bare scalpe of Robin Hoods fat Fryer,
This fellow were a King, for our wilde faction
1.Out. We'll haue him: Sirs, a word
 Sp. Master, be one of them:
It's an honourable kinde of theeuery
Val. Peace villaine
 2.Out. Tell vs this: haue you any thing to take to?
 Val. Nothing but my fortune
 3.Out. Know then, that some of vs are Gentlemen,
Such as the fury of vngouern'd youth
Thrust from the company of awfull men.
My selfe was from Verona banished,
For practising to steale away a Lady,
And heire and Neece, alide vnto the Duke
 2.Out. And I from Mantua, for a Gentleman,
Who, in my moode, I stab'd vnto the heart
 1.Out. And I, for such like petty crimes as these.
But to the purpose: for we cite our faults,
That they may hold excus'd our lawlesse liues;
And partly seeing you are beautifide
With goodly shape; and by your owne report,
A Linguist, and a man of such perfection,
As we doe in our quality much want
 2.Out. Indeede because you are a banish'd man,
Therefore, aboue the rest, we parley to you:
Are you content to be our Generall?
To make a vertue of necessity,
And liue as we doe in this wildernesse?
 3.Out. What saist thou? wilt thou be of our consort?
Say I, and be the captaine of vs all:
We'll doe thee homage, and be rul'd by thee,
Loue thee, as our Commander, and our King
1.Out. But if thou scorne our curtesie, thou dyest
2.Out. Thou shalt not liue, to brag what we haue offer'd
 Val. I take your offer, and will liue with you,
Prouided that you do no outrages
On silly women, or poore passengers
 3.Out. No, we detest such vile base practises.
Come, goe with vs, we'll bring thee to our Crewes,
And show thee all the Treasure we haue got;
Which, with our selues, all rest at thy dispose.
Enter Protheus, Thurio, Iulia, Host, Musitian, Siluia.
 Pro. Already haue I bin false to Valentine,
And now I must be as vniust to Thurio,
Vnder the colour of commending him,
I haue accesse my owne loue to prefer.
But Siluia is too faire, too true, too holy,
To be corrupted with my worthlesse guifts;
When I protest true loyalty to her,
She twits me with my falsehood to my friend;
When to her beauty I commend my vowes,
She bids me thinke how I haue bin forsworne
In breaking faith with Iulia, whom I lou'd;
And notwithstanding all her sodaine quips,
The least whereof would quell a louers hope:
Yet (Spaniel-like) the more she spurnes my loue,
The more it growes, and fawneth on her still;
But here comes Thurio; now must we to her window,
And giue some euening Musique to her eare
 Th. How now, sir Protheus, are you crept before vs?
 Pro. I gentle Thurio, for you know that loue
Will creepe in seruice, where it cannot goe
Th. I, but I hope, Sir, that you loue not here
Pro. Sir, but I doe: or else I would be hence
 Th. Who, Siluia?
 Pro. I, Siluia, for your sake
 Th. I thanke you for your owne: Now Gentlemen
Let's tune: and too it lustily a while
 Ho. Now, my yong guest; me thinks your' allycholly;
I pray you why is it?
 Iu. Marry (mine Host) because I cannot be merry
Ho. Come, we'll haue you merry: ile bring you where
you shall heare Musique, and see the Gentleman that
you ask'd for
Iu. But shall I heare him speake
Ho. I that you shall
Iu. That will be Musique
Ho. Harke, harke
 Iu. Is he among these?
 Ho. I: but peace, let's heare'm
 Song. Who is Siluia? what is she?
That all our Swaines commend her?
Holy, faire, and wise is she,
The heauen such grace did lend her,
that she might admired be.
Is she kinde as she is faire?
For beauty liues with kindnesse:
Loue doth to her eyes repaire,
To helpe him of his blindnesse:
And being help'd, inhabits there.
Then to Siluia, let vs sing,
That Siluia is excelling;
She excels each mortall thing
Vpon the dull earth dwelling.
To her let vs Garlands bring
 Ho. How now? are you sadder then you were before;
How doe you, man? the Musicke likes you not
Iu. You mistake: the Musitian likes me not
 Ho. Why, my pretty youth?
 Iu. He plaies false (father.)
 Ho. How, out of tune on the strings
So false that he grieues my very heart-strings
Ho. You haue a quicke eare
Iu. I, I would I were deafe: it makes me haue a slow heart
Ho. I perceiue you delight not in Musique
Iu. Not a whit, when it iars so
Ho. Harke, what fine change is in the Musique
Iu. I: that change is the spight
Ho. You would haue them alwaies play but one thing
 Iu. I would alwaies haue one play but one thing.
But Host, doth this Sir Protheus, that we talke on,
Often resort vnto this Gentlewoman?
