Enter Iustice Shallow, Slender, Sir Hugh Euans, Master Page,
Falstoffe,
Bardolph, Nym, Pistoll, Anne Page, Mistresse Ford, Mistresse
Page, Simple.
 Shallow. Sir Hugh, perswade me not: I will make a StarChamber
matter of it, if hee were twenty Sir
Iohn Falstoffs, he shall not abuse Robert Shallow
Slen. In the County of Glocester, Iustice of Peace and Coram
 Slen. I, and Ratolorum too; and a Gentleman borne
(Master Parson) who writes himselfe Armigero, in any
 Shal. I that I doe, and haue done any time these three
hundred yeeres
Slen. All his successors (gone before him) hath don't:
and all his Ancestors (that come after him) may: they
may giue the dozen white Luces in their Coate
Shal. It is an olde Coate
Euans. The dozen white Lowses doe become an old
Coat well: it agrees well passant: It is a familiar beast to
man, and signifies Loue
 Shal. The Luse is the fresh-fish, the salt-fish, is an old
Slen. I may quarter Coz
Shal. You may, by marrying
Euans. It is marring indeed, if he quarter it
Shal. Not a whit
Euan. Yes per-lady: if he ha's a quarter of your coat,
there is but three Skirts for your selfe, in my simple coniectures;
but that is all one: if Sir Iohn Falstaffe haue
committed disparagements vnto you, I am of the Church
and will be glad to do my beneuolence, to make attonements
and compremises betweene you
Shal. The Councell shall heare it, it is a Riot
Euan. It is not meet the Councell heare a Riot: there
is no feare of Got in a Riot: The Councell (looke you)
shall desire to heare the feare of Got, and not to heare a
Riot: take your vizaments in that
Shal. Ha; o'my life, if I were yong againe, the sword
should end it
Euans. It is petter that friends is the sword, and end
it: and there is also another deuice in my praine, which
peraduenture prings goot discretions with it. There is
Anne Page, which is daughter to Master Thomas Page,
which is pretty virginity
Slen. Mistris Anne Page? she has browne haire, and
speakes small like a woman
Euans. It is that ferry person for all the orld, as iust as
you will desire, and seuen hundred pounds of Moneyes,
and Gold, and Siluer, is her Grand-sire vpon his deathsbed,
(Got deliuer to a ioyfull resurrections) giue, when
she is able to ouertake seuenteene yeeres old. It were a
goot motion, if we leaue our pribbles and prabbles, and
desire a marriage betweene Master Abraham, and Mistris
 Slen. Did her Grand-sire leaue her seauen hundred
pound?
 Euan. I, and her father is make her a petter penny
 Slen. I know the young Gentlewoman, she has good
gifts
 Euan. Seuen hundred pounds, and possibilities, is
goot gifts
Shal. Wel, let vs see honest Mr Page: is Falstaffe there?
Euan. Shall I tell you a lye? I doe despise a lyer, as I
doe despise one that is false, or as I despise one that is not
true: the Knight Sir Iohn is there, and I beseech you be
ruled by your well-willers: I will peat the doore for Mr.
Page. What hoa? Got-plesse your house heere
Mr.Page. Who's there?
Euan. Here is go't's plessing and your friend, and Iustice
Shallow, and heere yong Master Slender: that peraduentures
shall tell you another tale, if matters grow to
your likings
Mr.Page. I am glad to see your Worships well: I
thanke you for my Venison Master Shallow
Shal. Master Page, I am glad to see you: much good
doe it your good heart: I wish'd your Venison better, it
was ill killd: how doth good Mistresse Page? and I thank
you alwaies with my heart, la: with my heart
M.Page. Sir, I thanke you
Shal. Sir, I thanke you: by yea, and no I doe
M.Pa. I am glad to see you, good Master Slender
Slen. How do's your fallow Greyhound, Sir, I heard
say he was out-run on Cotsall
M.Pa. It could not be iudg'd, Sir
Slen. You'll not confesse: you'll not confesse
Shal. That he will not, 'tis your fault, 'tis your fault:
'tis a good dogge
Shal. Sir: hee's a good dog, and a faire dog, can there
be more said? he is good, and faire. Is Sir Iohn Falstaffe
heere?
M.Pa. Sir, hee is within: and I would I could doe a
good office betweene you
Euan. It is spoke as a Christians ought to speake
 Shal. He hath wrong'd me (Master Page.)
 M.Pa. Sir, he doth in some sort confesse it
Shal. If it be confessed, it is not redressed; is not that
so (Master. Page?) he hath wrong'd me, indeed he hath, at a
word he hath: beleeue me, Robert Shallow Esquire, saith
he is wronged
Ma.Pa. Here comes Sir Iohn
 Fal. Now, Master Shallow, you'll complaine of me to
the King?
 Shal. Knight, you haue beaten my men, kill'd my
deere, and broke open my Lodge
 Fal. But not kiss'd your Keepers daughter?
 Shal. Tut, a pin: this shall be answer'd
 Fal. I will answere it strait, I haue done all this:
That is now answer'd
Shal. The Councell shall know this
Fal. 'Twere better for you if it were known in councell:
you'll be laugh'd at
Eu. Pauca verba; (Sir Iohn) good worts
Fal. Good worts? good Cabidge; Slender, I broke
your head: what matter haue you against me?
Slen. Marry sir, I haue matter in my head against you,
and against your cony-catching Rascalls, Bardolf, Nym,
and Pistoll
Slen. I, it is no matter
 Pist. How now, Mephostophilus?
 Slen. I, it is no matter
Nym. Slice, I say; pauca, pauca: Slice, that's my humor
Slen. Where's Simple my man? can you tell, Cosen?
Eua. Peace, I pray you: now let vs vnderstand: there
is three Vmpires in this matter, as I vnderstand; that is,
Master Page (fidelicet Master Page,) & there is my selfe,
(fidelicet my selfe) and the three party is (lastly, and finally)
mine Host of the Garter
Ma.Pa. We three to hear it, & end it between them
Euan. Ferry goo't, I will make a priefe of it in my
note-booke, and we wil afterwards orke vpon the cause,
with as great discreetly as we can
Pist. He heares with eares
Euan. The Teuill and his Tam: what phrase is this?
