Fer. I, with a heart as willing
As bondage ere of freedome: heere's my hand
 Mir. And mine, with my heart in't; and now farewel
Till halfe an houre hence
Fer. A thousand, thousand.
 Pro. So glad of this as they I cannot be,
Who are surpriz'd with all; but my reioycing
At nothing can be more: Ile to my booke,
For yet ere supper time, must I performe
Much businesse appertaining.
Enter Caliban, Stephano, and Trinculo.
Ste. Tell not me, when the But is out we will drinke
water, not a drop before; therefore beare vp, & boord
em' Seruant Monster, drinke to me
Trin. Seruant Monster? the folly of this Iland, they
say there's but fiue vpon this Isle; we are three of them,
if th' other two be brain'd like vs, the State totters
 Ste. Drinke seruant Monster when I bid thee, thy
eies are almost set in thy head
 Trin. Where should they bee set else? hee were a
braue Monster indeede if they were set in his taile
Ste. My man-Monster hath drown'd his tongue in
sacke: for my part the Sea cannot drowne mee, I swam
ere I could recouer the shore, fiue and thirtie Leagues
off and on, by this light thou shalt bee my Lieutenant
Trin. Your Lieutenant if you list, hee's no standard
 Trin. Nor go neither: but you'l lie like dogs, and yet
say nothing neither
 Ste. Moone-calfe, speak once in thy life, if thou beest
a good Moone-calfe
 Cal. How does thy honour? Let me licke thy shooe:
Ile not serue him, he is not valiant
Trin. Thou liest most ignorant Monster, I am in case
to iustle a Constable: why, thou debosh'd Fish thou,
was there euer man a Coward, that hath drunk so much
Sacke as I to day? wilt thou tell a monstrous lie, being
but halfe a Fish, and halfe a Monster?
 Cal. Loe, how he mockes me, wilt thou let him my
Lord?
 Trin. Lord, quoth he? that a Monster should be such
a Naturall?
Cal. Loe, loe againe: bite him to death I prethee
Ste. Trinculo, keepe a good tongue in your head: If
you proue a mutineere, the next Tree: the poore Monster's
my subiect, and he shall not suffer indignity
 Cal. I thanke my noble Lord. Wilt thou be pleas'd
to hearken once againe to the suite I made to thee?
 Ste. Marry will I: kneele, and repeate it,
I will stand, and so shall Trinculo.
Enter Ariell inuisible.
 Cal. As I told thee before, I am subiect to a Tirant,
A Sorcerer, that by his cunning hath cheated me
Ariell. Thou lyest
 Cal. Thou lyest, thou iesting Monkey thou:
I would my valiant Master would destroy thee.
 Ste. Trinculo, if you trouble him any more in's tale,
By this hand, I will supplant some of your teeth
Trin. Why, I said nothing
Ste. Mum then, and no more: proceed
 Cal. I say by Sorcery he got this Isle
From me, he got it. If thy Greatnesse will
Reuenge it on him, (for I know thou dar'st)
But this Thing dare not
Ste. That's most certaine
Cal. Thou shalt be Lord of it, and Ile serue thee
 Ste. How now shall this be compast?
Canst thou bring me to the party?
 Cal. Yea, yea my Lord, Ile yeeld him thee asleepe,
Where thou maist knocke a naile into his head
Ariell. Thou liest, thou canst not
 Cal. What a py'de Ninnie's this? Thou scuruy patch:
I do beseech thy Greatnesse giue him blowes,
And take his bottle from him: When that's gone,
He shall drinke nought but brine, for Ile not shew him
Where the quicke Freshes are
 Ste. Trinculo, run into no further danger:
Interrupt the Monster one word further, and by this
hand, Ile turne my mercie out o' doores, and make a
Stockfish of thee
 Trin. Why, what did I? I did nothing:
Ile go farther off
 Ste. Didst thou not say he lyed?
 Ariell. Thou liest
 Ste. Do I so? Take thou that,
As you like this, giue me the lye another time
 Trin. I did not giue the lie: Out o'your wittes, and
hearing too?
A pox o'your bottle, this can Sacke and drinking doo:
A murren on your Monster, and the diuell take your
fingers
 Ste. Now forward with your Tale: prethee stand
further off
 Cal. Beate him enough: after a little time
Ile beate him too
Ste. Stand farther: Come proceede
 Cal. Why, as I told thee, 'tis a custome with him
I'th afternoone to sleepe: there thou maist braine him,
Hauing first seiz'd his bookes: Or with a logge
Batter his skull, or paunch him with a stake,
Or cut his wezand with thy knife. Remember
First to possesse his Bookes; for without them
Hee's but a Sot, as I am; nor hath not
One Spirit to command: they all do hate him
As rootedly as I. Burne but his Bookes,
He ha's braue Vtensils (for so he calles them)
Which when he ha's a house, hee'l decke withall.
And that most deeply to consider, is
The beautie of his daughter: he himselfe
Cals her a non-pareill: I neuer saw a woman
But onely Sycorax my Dam, and she;
But she as farre surpasseth Sycorax,
As great'st do's least
Ste. Is it so braue a Lasse?
 Cal. I Lord, she will become thy bed, I warrant,
And bring thee forth braue brood
 Ste. Monster, I will kill this man: his daughter and
I will be King and Queene, saue our Graces: and Trinculo
and thy selfe shall be Viceroyes:
Dost thou like the plot Trinculo?
 Ste. Giue me thy hand, I am sorry I beate thee:
But while thou liu'st keepe a good tongue in thy head
 Cal. Within this halfe houre will he be asleepe,
Wilt thou destroy him then?
Ste. I on mine honour
Ariell. This will I tell my Master
 Cal. Thou mak'st me merry: I am full of pleasure,
Let vs be iocond. Will you troule the Catch
You taught me but whileare?
