Of these two are brought
to the world two daughters, so beyond measure excellent in all the gifts allotted to reasonable ceatures, that wee may thinke they were borne to shewe, that Nature is no stepmother to that sex, how much so euer some men (sharpe witted onely in euill speaking) haue sought to disgrace them.
The elder is named Pamela; by many men not deemed inferiour to her sister: for my part, when I marked them both, me thought there was (if at least such perfections may receyue the worde of more) more sweetnesse in Philoclea, but more maiestie in Pamela: mee thought loue plaide in Philocleas eyes, and threatned in Pamelas; me thought Philocleas beautie onely perswaded, but so perswaded as all harts must yeelde: Pamelas beautie vsed violence, and such violence as no hart could resist: and it seemes that such proportion is betweene their mindes; Philoclea so bashfull as though her excellencies had stolne into her before shee was aware: so humble, that she will put all pride out of countenance: in summe, such proceeding as will stirre hope, but teach good manners.
Pamela of high thoughts, who auoides not pride with not knowing her excellencies, but by making that one of her excellencies to be voide of pride; her mothers wisdome, greatnesse, nobilitie, but (if I can ghesse aright) knit with a more constant temper.
Now then, our Basilius being so publickly happie as to be a Prince, and so happie in that happinesse as to be a beloued Prince, and so in his priuate blessed as to haue so excellent a wife, and so ouer-excellent children, hath of late taken a course which yet makes him more spoken of then all these blessings.
For, hauing made a iourney to Delphos, and safely returned, within short space hee brake vp his court, and retired himself, his wife, and children into a certaine Forrest hereby, which hee calleth his desart, where in (besides a house appointed for stables and lodgings for certaine persons of meane calling, who do all houshold seruices,) hee hath builded two fine lodges.
In the one of them him self remaines with his younger daughter Philoclea, which was the cause they three were matched together in this picture, without hauing any other creature liuing in that lodge with him.
 Which though it be
straunge, yet not so straunge, as the course he hath taken with the princesse Pamela, whom hee hath placed in the other lodge: but how thinke you accompanied? truly with none other, but one Dametas, the most arrant doltish clowne, that I thinke euer was without the priuiledge of a bable, with his wife Miso, and daughter Mopsa, in whome no witt can deuise anie thing wherein they maie pleasure her, but to exercise her patience, and to serue for a foile of her perfections.
This loutish clowne is such, that you neuer saw so ill fauourd a visar; his behauiour such, that he is beyond the degree of ridiculous; and for his apparel, euen as I would wish him; Miso his wife, so handsome a beldame, that onely her face and her splayfoote haue made her accused for a witch; onely one good point she hath, that she obserues decorum, hauing a froward mind in a wretched body.
Betweene these two personages (who neuer agreed in any humor, but in disagreeing) is issued forth mistresse Mopsa, a fitte woman to participate of both their perfections: but because a pleasant fellow of my acquaintance set forth her praises in verse, I will only repeate them, and spare mine owne tongue, since she goes for a woman.
These verses are these, which I haue so often caused to be song, that I haue them without booke.
What length of verse can serue braue Mopsas good to show?
Whose vertues strange, & beuties such, as no man may know
Thus shrewdly burdned then, how can my muse escape?
The gods must help, and pretious things must serue to shew her shape.
Like great god Saturn faire, and like faire Venus chaste:
As smoothe as Pan, as Iuno milde, like goddess Iris faste.
With Cupid she fore-sees, and goes god Vulcans pace:
And for a tast of all these giftes, she steales god Momus grace.
Her forhead iacinth like, her cheekes of opall hue,
Her twinkling eies bedect with pearle, her lips as Saphir blew:
Her haire like Crapal-stone, her mouth O heauenly wyde;
Her skin like burnisht gold, her hands like siluer vre vntryde.
 As for her parts vnknowne, which hidden sure are best:
 Happie be they which well beleeue, & neuer seeke the rest.
 Now truely hauing made these descriptions vnto you, me thinkes you should imagine that I rather faine some pleasant deuise, then recount a truth, that a Prince (not banished from his own wits) could possibly make so vnworthie a choice.
But truely (deare guest) so it is, that Princes, (whose doings haue beene often soothed with good successe) thinke nothing so absurde, which they cannot make honourable.
The beginning of his credite was by the Princes straying out of the way, one time he hunted, where meeting this fellow, and asking him the way, & so falling into the other questions, he found some of his aunswers (as a dog sure if he could speake, had wit enough to describe his kennel) not vnsensible, & all vttered with such rudenes, which he enterpreted plainnesse (though there be great difference betweene them) that Basilius conceauing a sodaine delight, tooke him to his Court, with apparant shew of his good opinion: where the flattering courtier had no sooner taken the Princes minde, but that there were straight reasons to confirme the Princes doing, & shadowes of vertues found for Dametas.
His silence grew wit, his bluntnesse integritie, his beastly ignorance vertuous simplicite: & the Prince (according to the nature of great persons, in loue with that he had done himselfe) fancied, that his weaknesse with his presence would much be mended.
