How cam'st thou hither?
Sweare by this Bottle how thou cam'st hither: I escap'd
vpon a But of Sacke, which the Saylors heaued o'reboord,
by this Bottle which I made of the barke of
a Tree, with mine owne hands, since I was cast a'shore
Cal. I'le sweare vpon that Bottle, to be thy true subiect,
for the liquor is not earthly
St. Heere: sweare then how thou escap'dst
Tri. Swom ashore man like a Ducke: I can swim
like a Ducke i'le be sworne
Ste. Here, kisse the Booke.
Though thou canst swim like a Ducke, thou art made
like a Goose
Tri. O Stephano, ha'st any more of this?
Ste. The whole But man my Cellar is in a rocke
by th' sea-side, where my Wine is hid:
How now Moone-Calfe, how do's thine Ague?
Cal. Ha'st thou not dropt from heauen?
 Ste. Out o'th Moone I doe assure thee. I was the
Man ith' Moone, when time was
 Cal. I haue seene thee in her: and I doe adore thee:
My Mistris shew'd me thee, and thy Dog, and thy Bush
 Ste. Come, sweare to that: kisse the Booke: I will
furnish it anon with new Contents: Sweare
 Tri. By this good light, this is a very shallow Monster:
I afeard of him? a very weake Monster:
The Man ith' Moone?
A most poore creadulous Monster:
Well drawne Monster, in good sooth
 Cal. Ile shew thee euery fertill ynch o'th Island: and
I will kisse thy foote: I prethee be my god
 Tri. By this light, a most perfidious, and drunken
Monster, when's god's a sleepe he'll rob his Bottle
Cal. Ile kisse thy foot, Ile sweare my selfe thy Subiect
Ste. Come on then: downe and sweare
Tri. I shall laugh my selfe to death at this puppi-headed
Monster: a most scuruie Monster: I could finde in
my heart to beate him
Ste. Come, kisse
 Tri. But that the poore Monster's in drinke:
An abhominable Monster
 Cal. I'le shew thee the best Springs: I'le plucke thee
Berries: I'le fish for thee; and get thee wood enough.
A plague vpon the Tyrant that I serue;
I'le beare him no more Stickes, but follow thee, thou
wondrous man
 Tri. A most rediculous Monster, to make a wonder of
a poore drunkard
Cal. I 'prethee let me bring thee where Crabs grow;
and I with my long nayles will digge thee pig-nuts;
show thee a Iayes nest, and instruct thee how to snare
the nimble Marmazet: I'le bring thee to clustring
Philbirts, and sometimes I'le get thee young Scamels
from the Rocke: Wilt thou goe with me?
Ste. I pre'thee now lead the way without any more
talking. Trinculo, the King, and all our company else
being dround, wee will inherit here: Here; beare my
Bottle: Fellow Trinculo; we'll fill him by and by againe.
Caliban Sings drunkenly.
Farewell Master; farewell, farewell
Tri. A howling Monster: a drunken Monster
 Cal. No more dams I'le make for fish,
Nor fetch in firing, at requiring,
Nor scrape trenchering, nor wash dish,
Ban' ban' Cacalyban
Has a new Master, get a new Man.
Freedome, high-day, high-day freedome, freedome highday,
freedome
Ste. O braue Monster; lead the way.
 Fer. There be some Sports are painfull; & their labor
Delight in them set off: Some kindes of basenesse
Are nobly vndergon; and most poore matters
Point to rich ends: this my meane Taske
Would be as heauy to me, as odious, but
The Mistris which I serue, quickens what's dead,
And makes my labours, pleasures: O She is
Ten times more gentle, then her Father's crabbed;
And he's compos'd of harshnesse. I must remoue
Some thousands of these Logs, and pile them vp,
Vpon a sore iniunction; my sweet Mistris
Weepes when she sees me worke, & saies, such basenes
Had neuer like Executor: I forget:
But these sweet thoughts, doe euen refresh my labours,
Most busie lest, when I doe it.
Enter Miranda and Prospero.
 Mir. Alas, now pray you
Worke not so hard: I would the lightning had
Burnt vp those Logs that you are enioynd to pile:
Pray set it downe, and rest you: when this burnes
'Twill weepe for hauing wearied you: my Father
Is hard at study; pray now rest your selfe,
Hee's safe for these three houres
 Fer. O most deere Mistris
The Sun will set before I shall discharge
What I must striue to do
 Mir. If you'l sit downe
Ile beare your Logges the while: pray giue me that,
Ile carry it to the pile
 Fer. No precious Creature,
I had rather cracke my sinewes, breake my backe,
Then you should such dishonor vndergoe,
While I sit lazy by
 Mir. It would become me
As well as it do's you; and I should do it
With much more ease: for my good will is to it,
And yours it is against
 Pro. Poore worme thou art infected,
This visitation shewes it
Mir. You looke wearily
 Fer. No, noble Mistris, 'tis fresh morning with me
When you are by at night: I do beseech you
Cheefely, that I might set it in my prayers,
What is your name?
 Mir. Miranda, O my Father,
I haue broke your hest to say so
 Fer. Admir'd Miranda,
Indeede the top of Admiration, worth
What's deerest to the world: full many a Lady
I haue ey'd with best regard, and many a time
Th' harmony of their tongues, hath into bondage
Brought my too diligent eare: for seuerall vertues
Haue I lik'd seuerall women, neuer any
With so full soule, but some defect in her
Did quarrell with the noblest grace she ow'd,
And put it to the foile. But you, O you,
So perfect, and so peerlesse, are created
Of euerie Creatures best
 Mir. I do not know
One of my sexe; no womans face remember,
Saue from my glasse, mine owne: Nor haue I seene
More that I may call men, then you good friend,
And my deere Father: how features are abroad
I am skillesse of; but by my modestie
(The iewell in my dower) I would not wish
Any Companion in the world but you:
