They doubted a while what it should be; till it was cast vp euen hard before them: at which time they fully saw that it was a man: Wherupon running for pitie sake vnto him, they found his hands (as it should appeare, constanter frends to his life then his memorie) fast griping vpon the edge of a square small coffer, which lay all vnder his breast: els in him selfe no shew of life, so as the boord seemed to bee but a beere to cary him a land to his Sepulchre.
So drew they vp a young man of so goodly shape and well pleasing fauour, that one would think death had in him a louely countenance; and, that though he were naked, nakednes was to him an apparell.
That sight increased their compassion, and their compassion called vp their care; so that lifting his feete aboue his head, making a great deale of salt water to come out of his mouth, they layd him vpon some of their garments, and fell to rub and chafe him, till they brought him to recouer both breath the seruant, & warmth the companion of liuing.
At length, opening his eyes, he gaue a great groane, (a dolefull note but a pleasant dittie) for by that, they found not onely life, but strength of life in him.
They therefore continued on their charitable office, vntil (his spirits being well returned,) hee (without so much as thanking them for their paines) gate vp, and looking round about to the vttermost lymittes of his sight, and crying vpon the name of Pyrocles, nor seeing nor hearing cause of comfort: what (said he) and shall Musidorus liue after Pyrocles? therewithall he offered willfully to cast destruction & himselfe againe into the sea: a strange sight to the shepheards, to whom it seemed, that before being in apparance dead had yet saued his life, and now comming to his life, shoulde be a cause to procure his death; but they ranne vnto him, and pulling him backe, (then too feeble for them) by force stickled that vnnatural fray.
I pray you (said he) honest men, what such right haue you in me, as not to suffer me to doe with my self what I list? and what pollicie haue you to bestow a benefite where it is counted an iniury?
They hearing him speake in Greek (which was their naturall language) became the more tender hearted towards him; and considering by his calling and looking, that the losse of some deare friend was great cause of his sorow, told hime they were poore men that were bound by course of humanitie to preuent so great a mischiefe, and that they wisht him, if opinion of some bodies perishing bred such desperate anguish in him, that he should be comforted by his owne proofe, who had lately escaped as aparant danger as any might be.
No, no (said hee) it is not for me to attend so high a blissefulnesse: but since you take care of mee, I pray you finde meanes that some Barke may be prouided, that will goe out of the hauen, that if it be possible we may finde the body farre farre too precious a foode for fishes: and for the hire (said he) I haue within this casket, sufficient to content them.
Claius presently went to a Fisherman, & hauing agreed with him, and prouided some apparell for the naked stranger, he imbarked, and the Shepheards with him: and were no sooner gone beyond the mouth of the hauen, but that some way into the sea they might discerne (as it were) a stayne of the waters colour, and by times some sparkes and smoke mounting thereout.
But the young man no sooner saw it, but that beating his brest, he cried, that there was the beginning of his ruine, intreating them to bend their course as neere vnto it as they could: telling, how that smoake was but a small relique of a great fire, which had driuen both him & his friend rather to committe themselues to the cold mercie of the sea, then to abide the hote crueltie of the fire: and that therefore, though they both had abandoned the ship, that he was (if any where) in that course to be met withall.
They steared therefore as neere thetherward as they could: but when they came so neere as their eies were ful masters of the obiect, they saw a sight full of piteous strangenes: a ship, or rather the carkas of the shippe, or rather some few bones of the carkas, hulling there, part broken, part burned, part drowned: death hauing vsed more then one dart to that destruction.
About it floted great store of very rich thinges, and many chestes which might promise no lesse.
And amidst the precious things were a number of dead bodies, which likewise did not onely testifie both elements violence, but that the chiefe violence was growen of humane inhumanitie: for their bodies were ful of grisly wounds, & their bloud had (as it were) filled the wrinckles of the seas visage: which it seemed the sea coulde not washe away, that it might witnes it is not alwaies his fault, when we condemne his crueltie: in summe, a defeate, where the conquered kept both field and spoile: a shipwrack without storme or ill footing: and a wast of fire in the midst of water.
 But a litle way off they saw the mast, whose proude height now lay along; like a widdow hauing lost her make of whom she held her honor: but vpon the mast they sawa yong man (at least if he were a man) bearing shew of about 18. yeares of age, who sate (as on horsback) hauing nothing vpon him but his shirt, which being wrought with blew silk & gold; had a kind of resemblance to the sea: on which the sun (then neare his Westerne home) did shoote some of his beames.
