From me, the Lord on't
Fer. No, as I am a man
 Mir. Ther's nothing ill, can dwell in such a Temple,
If the ill-spirit haue so fayre a house,
Good things will striue to dwell with't
 Pros. Speake not you for him: hee's a Traitor: come,
Ile manacle thy necke and feete together:
Sea water shalt thou drinke: thy food shall be
The fresh-brooke Mussels, wither'd roots, and huskes
Wherein the Acorne cradled. Follow
 Fer. No,
I will resist such entertainment, till
Mine enemy ha's more pow'r.
He drawes, and is charmed from mouing.
 Mira. O deere Father,
Make not too rash a triall of him, for
Hee's gentle, and not fearfull
 Pros. What I say,
My foote my Tutor? Put thy sword vp Traitor,
Who mak'st a shew, but dar'st not strike: thy conscience
Is so possest with guilt: Come, from thy ward,
For I can heere disarme thee with this sticke,
And make thy weapon drop
Pros. Hence: hang not on my garments
 Mira. Sir haue pity,
Ile be his surety
 Pros. Silence: One word more
Shall make me chide thee, if not hate thee: What,
An aduocate for an Impostor? Hush:
Thou think'st there is no more such shapes as he,
(Hauing seene but him and Caliban:) Foolish wench,
To th' most of men, this is a Caliban,
And they to him are Angels
 Mira. My affections
Are then most humble: I haue no ambition
To see a goodlier man
 Pros. Come on, obey:
Thy Nerues are in their infancy againe.
And haue no vigour in them
 Fer. So they are:
My spirits, as in a dreame, are all bound vp:
My Fathers losse, the weaknesse which I feele,
The wracke of all my friends, nor this mans threats,
To whom I am subdude, are but light to me,
Might I but through my prison once a day
Behold this Mayd: all corners else o'th' Earth
Let liberty make vse of: space enough
Haue I in such a prison
 Pros. It workes: Come on.
Thou hast done well, fine Ariell: follow me,
Harke what thou else shalt do mee
 Mira. Be of comfort,
My Fathers of a better nature Sir
Then he appeares by speech: this is vnwonted
Which now came from him
 Pros. Thou shalt be as free
As mountaine windes; but then exactly do
All points of my command
Ariell. To th' syllable
Pros. Come follow: speake not for him.
Enter Alonso, Sebastian, Anthonio, Gonzalo, Adrian, Francisco,
and
others.
 Gonz. Beseech you Sir, be merry; you haue cause,
(So haue we all) of ioy; for our escape
Is much beyond our losse; our hint of woe
Is common, euery day, some Saylors wife,
The Masters of some Merchant, and the Merchant
Haue iust our Theame of woe: But for the miracle,
(I meane our preseruation) few in millions
Can speake like vs: then wisely (good Sir) weigh
Our sorrow, with our comfort
Alons. Prethee peace
Seb. He receiues comfort like cold porredge
Ant. The Visitor will not giue him ore so
 Seb. Looke, hee's winding vp the watch of his wit,
By and by it will strike
 Gon. When euery greefe is entertaind,
That's offer'd comes to th' entertainer
Seb. A dollor
 Gon. Dolour comes to him indeed, you haue spoken
truer then you purpos'd
 Seb. You haue taken it wiselier then I meant you
should
Ant. Fie, what a spend-thrift is he of his tongue
Alon. I pre-thee spare
Gon. Well, I haue done: But yet
Seb. He will be talking
 Ant. Which, of he, or Adrian, for a good wager,
First begins to crow?
Seb. Done: The wager?
Seb. A match
Adr. Though this Island seeme to be desert
Ant. So: you'r paid
Adr. Vninhabitable, and almost inaccessible
Ant. He could not misse't
Adr. It must needs be of subtle, tender, and delicate
temperance
Ant. Temperance was a delicate wench
Seb. I, and a subtle, as he most learnedly deliuer'd
Adr. The ayre breathes vpon vs here most sweetly
Seb. As if it had Lungs, and rotten ones
Ant. Or, as 'twere perfum'd by a Fen
Gon. Heere is euery thing aduantageous to life
Ant. True, saue meanes to liue
Seb. Of that there's none, or little
 Gon. How lush and lusty the grasse lookes?
How greene?
Ant. The ground indeed is tawny
Seb. With an eye of greene in't
Ant. He misses not much
Seb. No: he doth but mistake the truth totally
Gon. But the rariety of it is, which is indeed almost
beyond credit
Seb. As many voucht rarieties are
Gon. That our Garments being (as they were) drencht
in the Sea, hold notwithstanding their freshnesse and
glosses, being rather new dy'de then stain'd with salte
water
 Ant. If but one of his pockets could speake, would
it not say he lyes?
 Seb. I, or very falsely pocket vp his report
Gon. Me thinkes our garments are now as fresh as
when we put them on first in Affricke, at the marriage
of the kings faire daughter Claribel to the king of Tunis
 Seb. 'Twas a sweet marriage, and we prosper well in
our returne
 Adri. Tunis was neuer grac'd before with such a Paragon
to their Queene
Gon. Not since widdow Dido's time
 Ant. Widow? A pox o'that: how came that Widdow
in? Widdow Dido!
 Seb. What if he had said Widdower aeneas too?
Good Lord, how you take it?
 Adri. Widdow Dido said you? You make me study
of that: She was of Carthage, not of Tunis
Adri. Carthage?
Gon. I assure you Carthage
Ant. His word is more then the miraculous Harpe
Seb. He hath rais'd the wall, and houses too
Ant. What impossible matter wil he make easy next?
 Seb. I thinke hee will carry this Island home in his
pocket, and giue it his sonne for an Apple
 Ant. And sowing the kernels of it in the Sea, bring
forth more Islands
Ant. Why in good time
Gon. Sir, we were talking, that our garments seeme
now as fresh as when we were at Tunis at the marriage
of your daughter, who is now Queene
Ant. And the rarest that ere came there
Seb. Bate (I beseech you) widdow Dido
Ant. O Widdow Dido? I, Widdow Dido
Gon. Is not Sir my doublet as fresh as the first day I
wore it? I meane in a sort
Ant. That sort was well fish'd for
Gon. When I wore it at your daughters marriage
 Alon. You cram these words into mine eares, against
the stomacke of my sense: would I had neuer
Married my daughter there: For comming thence
My sonne is lost, and (in my rate) she too,
Who is so farre from Italy remoued,
I ne're againe shall see her: O thou mine heire
Of Naples and of Millaine, what strange fish
Hath made his meale on thee?
