Oh excellent deuise, was there euer heard a better?
That my master being scribe,
To himselfe should write the Letter?
 Val. How now Sir?
What are you reasoning with your selfe?
 Speed. Nay: I was riming: 'tis you y haue the reason
 Val. To doe what?
 Speed. To be a Spokes-man from Madam Siluia
 Val. To whom?
 Speed. To your selfe: why, she woes you by a figure
 Val. What figure?
 Speed. By a Letter, I should say
 Val. Why she hath not writ to me?
 Speed. What need she,
When shee hath made you write to your selfe?
Why, doe you not perceiue the iest?
 Val. No, beleeue me
 Speed. No beleeuing you indeed sir:
But did you perceiue her earnest?
 Val. She gaue me none, except an angry word
Speed. Why she hath giuen you a Letter
Val. That's the Letter I writ to her friend
Speed. And y letter hath she deliuer'd, & there an end
Val. I would it were no worse
 Speed. Ile warrant you, 'tis as well:
For often haue you writ to her: and she in modesty,
Or else for want of idle time, could not againe reply,
Or fearing els some messenger, y might her mind discouer
Her self hath taught her Loue himself, to write vnto her louer.
All this I speak in print, for in print I found it.
Why muse you sir, 'tis dinner time
Val. I haue dyn'd
Speed. I, but hearken sir: though the Cameleon Loue
can feed on the ayre, I am one that am nourish'd by my
victuals; and would faine haue meate: oh bee not like
your Mistresse, be moued, be moued.
Enter Protheus, Iulia, Panthion.
 Pro. Haue patience, gentle Iulia:
 Iul. I must where is no remedy
Pro. When possibly I can, I will returne
 Iul. If you turne not: you will return the sooner:
Keepe this remembrance for thy Iulia's sake
 Pro. Why then wee'll make exchange;
Here, take you this
Iul. And seale the bargaine with a holy kisse
 Pro. Here is my hand, for my true constancie:
And when that howre ore-slips me in the day,
Wherein I sigh not (Iulia) for thy sake,
The next ensuing howre, some foule mischance
Torment me for my Loues forgetfulnesse:
My father staies my comming: answere not:
The tide is now; nay, not thy tide of teares,
That tide will stay me longer then I should,
Iulia, farewell: what, gon without a word?
I, so true loue should doe: it cannot speake,
For truth hath better deeds, then words to grace it
Panth. Sir Protheus: you are staid for
 Pro. Goe: I come, I come:
Alas, this parting strikes poore Louers dumbe.
Enter Launce, Panthion.
Launce. Nay, 'twill bee this howre ere I haue done
weeping: all the kinde of the Launces, haue this very
fault: I haue receiu'd my proportion, like the prodigious
Sonne, and am going with Sir Protheus to the Imperialls
Court: I thinke Crab my dog, be the sowrest natured
dogge that liues: My Mother weeping: my Father
wayling: my Sister crying: our Maid howling: our
Catte wringing her hands, and all our house in a great
perplexitie, yet did not this cruell-hearted Curre shedde
one teare: he is a stone, a very pibble stone, and has no
more pitty in him then a dogge: a Iew would haue wept
to haue seene our parting: why my Grandam hauing
no eyes, looke you, wept her selfe blinde at my parting:
nay, Ile shew you the manner of it. This shooe is my father:
no, this left shooe is my father; no, no, this left
shooe is my mother: nay, that cannot bee so neyther:
yes; it is so, it is so: it hath the worser sole: this shooe
with the hole in it, is my mother: and this my father:
a veng'ance on't, there 'tis: Now sir, this staffe is my sister:
for, looke you, she is as white as a lilly, and as
small as a wand: this hat is Nan our maid: I am the
dogge: no, the dogge is himselfe, and I am the dogge:
oh, the dogge is me, and I am my selfe: I; so, so: now
come I to my Father; Father, your blessing: now
should not the shooe speake a word for weeping:
now should I kisse my Father; well, hee weepes on:
Now come I to my Mother: Oh that she could speake
now, like a would-woman: well, I kisse her: why
there 'tis; heere's my mothers breath vp and downe:
Now come I to my sister; marke the moane she makes:
now the dogge all this while sheds not a teare: nor
speakes a word: but see how I lay the dust with my
teares
Panth. Launce, away, away: a Boord: thy Master is
ship'd, and thou art to post after with oares; what's the
matter? why weep'st thou man? away asse, you'l loose
the Tide, if you tarry any longer
 Laun. It is no matter if the tide were lost, for it is the
vnkindest Tide, that euer any man tide
 Panth. What's the vnkindest tide?
 Lau. Why, he that's tide here, Crab my dog
Pant. Tut, man: I meane thou'lt loose the flood, and
in loosing the flood, loose thy voyage, and in loosing thy
voyage, loose thy Master, and in loosing thy Master,
loose thy seruice, and in loosing thy seruice: - why
dost thou stop my mouth?
Laun. For feare thou shouldst loose thy tongue
 Panth. Where should I loose my tongue?
Laun. Loose the Tide, and the voyage, and the Master,
and the Seruice, and the tide: why man, if the Riuer
were drie, I am able to fill it with my teares: if the winde
were downe, I could driue the boate with my sighes
Panth. Come: come away man, I was sent to call
thee
Lau. Sir: call me what thou dar'st
 Pant. Wilt thou goe?
 Laun. Well, I will goe.
Enter Valentine, Siluia, Thurio, Speed, Duke, Protheus.
