Right bab, sit yowerself down a minute cause I'm gonna tell yer the whole of it start to finish, and don't say I never warned yer it gets a bit much in places.

By the end of the night our kid was in a right state, and I mean a right state. Earlier on her'd been the life and soul, doing a gambol on the lawn outside the beer garden for a laugh, everyone cheering her on, her not a care in the world. Then summat just switched. Her went from laughing at everything to sat in the booth with her head lolling like it was too heavy for her neck, eyes gone all glassy and not focusing on nowt.

First proper sign it'd tipped over was when her tried to get up to go the bar again. Her legs just wo having it, simple as that. Her went down half on the seat and half on me and if I hadn't caught her donnie her'd have gone right off the end of the bench onto the floor.

Me: Yow alright there?

My mate: I'm fine. I'm fine, stop fussing at me.

But her words was coming out all bent round the edges, like her tongue had gone yampy on her and forgot how it was supposed to work. I asked her to just say her own drink order back to me, summat simple, and her couldn't get it out straight to save her life. That's when I knew we day want to be stopping for one more.

Getting her to actually leave was its own whole negotiation. Her kept on that her was fine, that her wanted another, that I was being saft about it.

My mate: I ay drunk. I've had four.

Me: You've had about nine and you can't stand up straight, come on now.

My mate: I cor even feel drunk, that's how yer know I'm alright.

Took a good ten minutes of that, her arguing the toss and me just stood there with her coat, before her finally give in and let me get her up and out the door.

The walk home I kept me arm round her the whole way, cause without it her'd have gone straight into a hedge or a parked car, one or the other. We day get far before her needed to stop, sat down hard on somebody's wall to be sick into the gutter, and I stood there rubbing her back and telling her it was alright, get it all up, better out than in. A bloke walking his dog gave us a look as he went past, proper pulled his dog in tight to the other side of the path like we had summat catching.

Him: Bloody hell, state of the pair of yer.

Me: Cheers mate, appreciate that.

He day even slow down, just tutted and carried on. Charming.

Once her'd got it all up her felt a bit better for a minute, enough to get walking again, but I took a wrong turn somewhere round the back of the estate, confused meself thinking it was quicker cutting past the cut than going the normal way, and we ended up going all round the Wrekin to get back what should've took ten minutes. Her day help, kept pointing us down entries that went nowhere and insisting her knew a short cut an all, when her could barely tell yer what day of the week it was.

Got her sat on a step for a bit near the top of the road, and that's when I tried to get some water into her from the bottle I'd grabbed off the bar on the way out. Her day want it at first, pushed me donnie away, turned her head like a toddler refusing its tea.

My mate: I'm not drinking that, get off me.

Me: You are, come on, just a bit, it'll help.

My mate: I don't want it.

I kept at her gentle like, holding it to her mouth, and eventually her give in and had a few gulps, more of it going down her chin than down her neck if I'm honest, but it was summat.

It was somewhere round there, sat on that step with the water running down her chin, that her come out with the one thing that got me right in the chest. Her grabbed me donnie and looked at me proper serious, eyes all wet.

My mate: Yer know yer me best mate in the whole world don't yer. I mean that. I don't tell yer enough.

Me: I know, our kid, I know. Come on, let's get yer home.

My mate: No but I mean it. Nobody else'd sit with me on a step like this.

Her was properly blartin by then an all, tears running down with the water, and I just held onto her and told her course I would, every time, don't be daft.

Getting her the rest of the way was slower going, but we made it eventually. Then course we had the door to deal with, and her key day want to go in the lock no matter which way up her tried it, her hands shaking too much to line it up. I had to take it off her in the end and do it meself while her leant on the frame giggling about nothing.

Got her in and half carried, half walked her through to the front room, sat her down on the settee before her legs give out completely, then eased her back with a cushion under her head. Her was already halfway gone by the time I got her shoes off.

That's when her made the big promise, hand on her chest and everything, dead serious.

My mate: I'm never drinking like that again. Never. This is it, I mean it this time.

Me: Course you are, bab. Get some sleep.

Didn't believe a word of it even as her was saying it, and I don't think her half believed it herself, but yer let them have it, don't yer. Left a glass of water and a bucket by the settee just in case, and let meself out quiet, tara-a-bit for the night, though I texted her workmate to check her was still breathing about an hour later just to be sure.

Rung her the next morning to see how her was getting on. Her sounded like death warmed up.

My mate: Me head's banging. What time did we even get in?

Me: Gone two. Do you remember any of it?

My mate: Bits. I remember the dancing. I don't remember leaving.

Me: You don't remember being sick on someone's wall then, or the bloke with the dog?

My mate: ...No.

Me: Or the bit where you told me I was your best mate in the whole world?

My mate: Oh God, did I say that?

Filled her in on most of it bit by bit while her groaned down the phone at every part, the wrong turn, the water her day want, the state of her trying to get her key in the door. Her went proper quiet when I told her about the promise never to drink like that again.

My mate: I meant it though.

Me: Course yer did, bab. Course yer did.

And we both knew good and well we'd be having this exact same conversation again before too long, but that's her all over, and I wouldn't have her any other way.
