New neighbour: Somebody said summat about a fox living down our end, is that right? What's the story with that then, bab?

Me: Oh, don't get me started, love, sit yerself down a minute and I'll tell yer the whole thing from the start, cause it's been going on months now and there's still folk on this street won't hear a word said against it.

Right, so it started with the woman at the end, the one with the caravan on the drive, her reckoned her'd seen summat big dartin' across the entry late one night, back end of last year it must've bin. Course everybody just said her was imaginin' it, her'd had a couple down the outdoor and it was dark and foxes don't get that big round here, do they, that's what everybody was sayin'. My mom said, "her's always seeing summat, remember when her swore blind there was a burglar and it was the wheelie bin fell over." So we all just laughed it off, nobody thought no more of it.

Then not two weeks after, the old boy from the corner house, the one who's lived here longer than anybody, he sees it an' all, broad daylight this time, sat on his own wall bold as yer like. And when he says summat, people listen, cause he ay one for makin' things up, never has bin. He come round ours and he says, "I'm tellin' yer now, there's a fox living somewhere round the back of them gardens, I've just watched it walk straight through mine like it owned the place." And that's when it all kicked off proper, cause if he's seen it, it must be true.

After that it was seen all the time. In the bins, mostly, tippin' em right over some mornings, rubbish all up the entry, and diggin' about in the gardens an' all, the flower beds looking like somebody'd been at em with a fork. Our kid found a right mess out the back one mornin' and come in blartin' about his football gettin' chewed to bits, though between me and you that could've bin the dog next door an' all, nobody really knew for certain.

Well the street split right down the middle over it. You had one lot, mostly the older ones and the woman with the caravan funnily enough, sayin' leave the poor thing be, it ay doin' no harm, it's just tryin' to get by same as anybody. And then you had the other lot, dead set it wanted sortin', on about callin' the council or gettin' summat set for it, sayin' it wo be long before it does some proper damage if nobody does nothin'.

Then the cat went missin' from two doors down, the ginger one that sits on the wall every day without fail, and that was it, no more arguin' about whether to do owt, it was war. Everybody blamed the fox straight off, no question, though nobody had a shred of proof, the cat could've just wandered off same as cats do, or got shut in somebody's shed, but try tellin' that lot that. There was a right old ding-dong about it at the street do we have out the front every summer, proper shoutin' match, one bloke stood up sayin' summat wants doin' about it before it's somebody's kiddy next, and the woman with the caravan give him what for, called him yampy for even sayin' it, said the poor animal's more scared of us than we am of it.

One family tried to sort it theirselves, mind, without askin' nobody. Set up some sort of trap out the back with a bit of chicken in it, thought they'd catch it and take it off somewhere. Caught next door's cat instead, the black one, and had a right job gettin' it back out again, scratched to bits they were, donnies covered in it, had to go straight in and wash em before their tea. Laughin stock of the street for a week after that, everybody had a go at em over the fence.

But it was the night it come right up to the young couple's back door that really brought it to a head. Her'd just took the bins out, dark as anything, and it come right past her, close as owt, and her screamed the street down, proper shook her up it did, her wo go out the back on her own for weeks after that. Some said that proves it, it's gettin' bold, it's dangerous, summat needs doin' now before it does. Others said it's not dangerous, bab, it's just lost, wanderin' where it shouldn't, more frightened than her was if the truth be told, foxes don't go for people, it just picked the wrong garden to cut through that night.

That's when somebody had the sense to get an outside fella in, proper wildlife man, does it for a livin', knew all about foxes and where they go and why. Come round, had a good look at the gardens, at the bins, walked the length of the cut out the back where he reckoned it was gettin' in from, and told us straight, it's just a young dog fox lookin' for somewhere to settle, ay a danger to nobody, just secure yer bins and don't leave nothin' out and it'll go about its business same as it always has.

So that's what we settled on in the end. Everybody chippin' in on proper bins with the lids that clip down, no more leavin' bags out the back overnight, and the old boy on the corner keeps half an eye out from his window most nights anyway, always has done, says it comes past reg'lar as anything but never bothers nobody.

And that's about it now, love. You still see it now and again, trottin' up the entry of an evenin', but nobody bats an eyelid no more, it's just part of the street. Folk talk about it like it's a right laugh now, all round the pub, "remember when it had the cat trap and caught next door's moggy," that sort of thing, more of a tale we tell than owt to be worried about. Anyway, that's yer answer, bab, don't say I day warn yer. Right, I'd best get on, our kid's expectin' his tea. Tara-a-bit, love, keep out the 'oss road.
