Ey up me duck,

I know, I know. You'll be sat there thinking I've fell off the face of the earth, and I in't got a leg to stand on, cause it's been months and months and I keep saying to mesen, tonight, I'll do it tonight, and then summat else wants doing and the letter goes back in the drawer under the bills. So here it is finally, proper long an' all, cause I owe you that much at least. Put the kettle on, get yer snap or whatever you're avin, and settle in, cause I'm gunna tell you everything.

Right, house first. You'll remember we was on about that guttering for about two year, the bit over the back door that used to chuck water straight down yer neck every time it chucked it down proper. Well it's done. Finally. Took a bloke three days and more moaning than the job were worth but it's done and the wall's dry for the first time since you left, so that's one thing off the list. Course, soon as one thing gets fixed summat else goes, in't it always the way, and now it's the back gate that's give up, the latch has gone and it just swings, so we've had to prop it with a brick which I know looks daft but it does the job for now. And I put a rose in, the one by the step where the old one died off, red this time not pink, cause I thought if I'm looking at it every day out the kitchen window I might as well pick the colour mesen.

Big news though, proper big news, is our eldest's moved. You'll remember all the talk about the place shutting the site down, well it dint shut exactly but they cut it right back and for a good few months it looked like she'd be out of a job altogether, proper worrying time it was, nobody sleeping right over it. Then out of nowhere they offered her a role over the other side, better one an all, more money, but it meant taking it or nowt, so she's took it and moved house to be nearer, bought a little place with a garden the size of a hanky but she loves it. So that's a whole different bus route now if any of us want to see her, which we do moan about, but we're that pleased for her really.

Still say nowt about the cob, ey. You know what I mean.

Right, the street. Old fella two doors down, the one who used to stand at his gate of a morning watching the world go by, he's gone into a home now, family couldn't manage him on his own no more after his fall, and the house has been sold on to a young couple with a baby on the way, seem alright, said ey up over the fence the once and that were about it so far. And the ones across the jitty, you'll remember they'd only just had the one, well they've had another now, so that's two under three running about, you can hear it of an evening, proper racket but a good sort of racket. Oh and the youth from number whatever it was, the lanky one who used to kick a ball against next door's wall till everyone were sick of the sound of it, he's gone off to college in the city, so it's gone quiet round there now, which nobody thought they'd say they missed but we do a bit.

Two as ask after you every single time I see them, without fail. Our mam, obviously, though she'd never say she worries, she just asks summat like has he got a decent coat for the winter over there, which is her way of worrying without saying the word. And the one at the counter in the corner shop, don't ask me how she even remembers, but every time I'm in for milk or whatever she says, how's yer sister getting on then, tell her I said hello. So there's that, two people you've never properly said more than six words to between you and they've not forgot you.

Now here's the bit I'll write down but wouldn't say to yer face if you was sat right here, so don't you dare bring it up when you ring. Your last parcel came, the little one with the daft magnet and the tea in it, and I sat on the stairs and had a proper scraitin over it, like a babby, over a magnet, I know. It just got me, is all. Some days it's fine and some days the house feels a bit big without you shouting down for the last of the milk, and that were one of them days. There. Said it. Never mention it again.

Weather's been summat else this year. Spring were alright, bit nesh at the start of it, had the heating on longer than I'd like to admit, but then it turned and we got tret to a proper stretch of it, warm evenings, sat out the back with the neighbours over the fence more than once. Then just last week it went black over Bill's mother's of an afternoon, proper dark, and it dint half chuck it down, thunder and everything, knocked the power out for an hour and had us all stood at the window watching it like it were the telly. Cleared right up after though, like it always does, and now it's back to muggy and everyone's mardy about it being too hot to sleep, you can't win.

Right, questions, cause I want to know it all, not just the bits you put in a text. What's the food like where you are, are you managing to get owt that tastes of home or is it all gone proper foreign on you, and I mean that nicely. What's your place actually like, have you got yerself sorted with decent neighbours or is it all still boxes everywhere. And work, how's that settling now the first bit of newness has worn off, is it what you thought it'd be or has it turned out different once you got yer feet under the table. Don't just say fine to all three either, I want the real answer, you know what I'm like.

I'll not go on much more, this is getting proper long even for me, but before I finish, I am sending them photos, the ones from the garden and the do we had, I keep saying it every time we speak and then I don't do it, but this time I mean it, they're going in the post the same day as this, promise. Look after yersen over there, don't go getting too grand for us, and write back when you can, even if it's short, I'm not fussed how long you take about it after this performance.

All my love, and gerroff laughing at how soft I've gone at the end of this.
