The father: Come in outta that, sham, sit down there, don't mind the state of the place.

The friend: Well, how's it all going, the three of ye? Are ye getting on alright?

The mother: Ah grand, sure we can't complain, we're delighted with him. Aren't we, delighted altogether.

The father: Delighted, aye. Ah look, I won't be lying to ya, sham, it's been fierce hard going. He's up four, five times a night on us, no bother to him at all, and if we get three hour strung together in the one go we'd be doing well out of it.

The mother: Three hour if we're lucky, God help us. I'm after forgetting what a full night's sleep even feels like at this stage, honest to God.

The friend: Ah God love ye both, that's shocking altogether, sure a body couldn't function on that class of sleep.

The father: And me back's banjaxed from the lifting of him in and out the cot beyond in the kena, half asleep, no shape to me at all in the mornings.

The mother: And gloke at the hands on me, shaking away from the tiredness, I can hardly hold the cup of tea steady to me mouth.

The friend: Ah ye poor craturs, God help ye, that's no joke going.

The mother: I'll tell ya what I done the other day. I'm after making up his bottle and I put it below in the press with the mugs instead of the fridge, walking round the kena a half an hour looking for it, and it sitting there the whole time under me nose.

The father: I done worse. Went out the tober for nappies and come back with the messages and not a nappy on me, forgot the whole reason I went out in the first place.

The friend: (laughing) Ah stop, the two of ye are wrecked altogether. Look it, will I take the sublik for me tomorrow of an afternoon, give ye a chance to get your heads down, and I'll bring round a dinner an' all, save ye the bother of cooking.

The mother: Ah no, sure you don't have to be doing that, we'll manage away -

The father: (talking over her) We'll take it, God bless ya, honest to God we're only wrecked.

The mother: We are, we are. Thanks, love, God bless ya for it, I mean that now.

The friend: Not a bother in the world. Sure what else are we for.
