I had to get the title switched over on the old truck, and hit needed doing that very day on account of the fellow that bought it was fixing to head on back down toward Knoxville and weren't coming back up through here again anytime soon. So I come down out of the holler first thing that morning, got to the office right when they opened, had the bill of sale and ever'thing filled out proper. Figured hit'd take about ten minutes.

Man behind the counter took his own sweet time looking hit over, turning the paper this way and that like he was reading it three times through. Then he says, well now, this time of year we get right smart backed up, plumb through to next week sometimes, though some folks find a way to get theirs moved along a good bit quicker. Didn't say how. Just let hit hang there in the air.

I played like I never caught his drift at all. Told him, oh, I got all the time in the world, I'll just set here a-waiting however long hit takes, no hurry on my end. Which weren't true one bit, but I said hit anyhow.

He tried her again, second time a good bit plainer, said some folks bring a little something extra along to help things move, you understand what I'm saying. I told him I understood the state fee was what it was and I already paid that, and I believed hit covered everything a man needed covered.

Set there a minute real quiet, him looking at me, me looking right back, neither one of us saying another word about hit. Could've gone sideways right then if I'd have let hit.

Then I mentioned my wife's cousin worked over at the clerk's office in the next county, and I might could just as easy run it through over there come tomorrow if today weren't convenient for him. That done hit. He stamped hit right then and handed it back like he'd never said a word to begin with.

My own verdict on hit is this: a man like that is testing does you know any better, and if you don't let on you caught him, more often than not he'll just do the job he's paid to do rather than push it on somebody that might go and tell.
