Me: Law, you'uns shoulda came with us. Hit was a sight, all them folks up in the holler, more people than that little church has seed in years.

Cousin: I know it. You see cousin's boy? The one used to be knee high to a duck, always up under his mama's feet? I liked to not knowed him standing right in front of me. Growed hisself a beard, got big as a barn door, right smart bigger than his own daddy now.

Me: I seed him too. Skinny little thing a-running around barefoot back when, and now look at him. But old Uncle, he ain't changed a lick. Same as he was thirty year gone, still a-telling them same old jokes, still got them galluses on, still comes down off the porch with that same gimpy walk.

Cousin: Plumb the same. Hit's like time forgot him altogether.

Me: You heared who didn't show?

Cousin: The middle boy from over past the ridge? Heared his knees give plumb out on him. Can't hardly climb the porch steps no more, let alone drive all this way over.

Me: That's a shame, that is. But you know what I heared that liked to knock me clean over? Cousin's girl, the one run off to the city right outta high school. She's a doctor now. A real doctor, up in some big hospital.

Cousin: Get on out of here. That little bitty thing that used to hide behind her mama's skirt at every dinner on the ground?

Me: The very one. We was fixing to leave when somebody pointed her out, or I might not have believed it at all.

Cousin: Wonders never cease, I reckon. Well, I reckon we ain't changed all that much ourselves, have we.

Me: Speak for yourself. I got about twice the belly I had and half the hair, and my knees might could give out any day now, same as that boy's.

Cousin: We're a-holding up alright, I'd say. Might could still climb that hill behind the church, anyhow, if we had to.

Me: We ought not let it go another five year 'fore we all get back together again.

Cousin: Amen to that. Let's us plan on it 'fore we're all too sigogglin and wore out to make the trip a-tall.

Me: You'uns come along next time too, and bring a poke of them biscuits your mama makes.
