Lord, let me tell you about the time we went down for my cousin's wedding, because I still ain't got over it and it's been two year now. You'd think a body would let it go but naw, it's too good not to tell.

Now we had this planned out for months, I mean to the day. Bus ticket bought back in the spring, bags packed the night before and set right there by the door so we wouldn't be a-scrambling come morning. I had it all wrote down, what time the bus left the depot, what time we was supposed to change over in Knoxville, what time we'd get in that evening with plenty of daylight left to get gussied up for the rehearsal supper. Smooth as anything on paper. I told the husband, I said, this one's gonna go easy, we done thought of everthing.

Well hit didn't even get out the gate good before it went sideways. We're a-standing there at the depot with our pokes packed and everything, and they come on the speaker and say the bus is running late, ain't even left Sevierville yet, some kind of trouble with it there. So we're a-setting on that hard bench a good hour before it ever pulled in, and I recall thinking, well, that's just the first one, they always run a little behind, hit don't matter none.

Except it did matter, because we hadn't got forty mile down the road, right about where the ridge comes down close on the highway, and that thing just quit. Not slowed down, quit. Driver eased it over on the shoulder and got out and stood there looking up under the hood like that was gonna fix anything, and you could tell right off he didn't have the first idea what was wrong with it no more than we did.

That's when the crowd started building. Folks off our bus, then somebody radioed another bus and they brung more people over to wait with us, till there was a right smart bunch of us standing around on that shoulder, some setting on suitcases, some just a-pacing. A young feller kept a-hollering into his phone trying to get somebody to come get him. We waited on that road better than three hours, no lie, and every time you asked the driver when another bus was coming he'd just shrug and say he didn't know no more than we did. Nobody in charge of nothing. You'uns ever stood on a roadside for three hours not knowing if you're moving in ten minutes or ten hours? It does something to a person.

And of course, because the Lord likes his little jokes, the weather turned right about then too. Sky had been fine when we left, and by the time we'd been stuck there two hours it clouded up dark and started in on a cold rain, and everbody's a-huddling up under what little cover there was, shivering, holding pokes over their heads like that was gonna help.

Somewhere in all that mess I turned around and the husband wasn't where I'd left him. I like to had a fit. Twenty minutes I hunted him, hollering his name over that crowd, thinking he'd wandered off to find a bathroom and got hisself lost or worse, took off with somebody. Come to find out he'd walked down the road a piece looking for a signal to call his mama and let her know we'd be late, and never thought to tell me. I could've wrung his neck right there, but I was too relieved to see him to do it.

Now here's the part I still think on. There was an old feller, stranger to all of us, driving a pickup that stopped when he seen the bus setting there. Didn't have to stop. He got out and went round handing out bottled water and let a few folks with little ones set up in the cab out of the rain a spell. Wadn't nothing much, I reckon, but it was something, and I have thought on that man plenty since, wondering if he ever knows how much that meant setting out there soaked and give up on.

Once the second bus finally come to haul us on, we got to Knoxville too late for our connection, naturally, and had to turn around and pay out fifty dollars we never once planned on spending, just to get a shuttle the rest of the way so we wouldn't miss the whole wedding entire. Fifty dollars for a forty minute ride, and I remember standing there counting it out thinking, well, there goes the tip money.

That shuttle is where me and the husband really got into it. He wanted to just wait on another connecting bus, said it'd save us the money, and I told him we didn't have time left to be waiting on nothing, we'd done missed enough. We was leveling with each other pretty hard right there in that station, both of us wore thin and neither one backing down.

Me: We are not setting in this station another two hours. I don't care what it costs.

The husband: You're the one that's gonna care when we're broke down in Georgia too.

Me: I'd rather be broke in Georgia than late to my own cousin's wedding.

The husband: Fine. Fine, have it your way, like always.

Well we had it my way, and wouldn't you know the shuttle driver, trying to save time, took what he called a shortcut off the interstate and got us good and lost down some backroad that didn't lead nowhere we needed to be. Cost us two more hours we sure didn't have to spare, everbody in that van dead silent and mad, me included, wondering if we might could still make it at all.

By then I was plumb wore out, the kind of tired where your eyes burn and you can't hardly hold a thought together. That was the low point right there, somewhere on that backroad in the dark, nobody talking, everbody just staring out the window wondering why we'd ever left home to begin with.

But then, right when I'd about give up hope, the driver's phone finally got a signal and he found the right road again, and not two minutes later we come up on a little all-night diner that had a phone we could use, and the woman behind the counter, bless her, called ahead to the wedding folks and let them know we was still coming, just running behind. That was the turn, right there. Everthing after that seemed to fall in line.

We rolled in a full nine hours past when we was ever supposed to get there, hair a mess, clothes wrinkled up something awful, both of us looking like we'd been drug through a knothole backwards. My cousin's mama took one look at us and just laughed and hugged our necks and said don't worry about it none, y'all made it, that's all that matters.

And we did make it. Half dead, out fifty dollars we hadn't planned on, having fought like cats and dogs somewhere around midnight, but we made it. I laugh about it now telling it, but Lord, setting on that roadside in the rain not knowing when we'd move again, that wasn't one bit funny at the time. Not one bit.
