Me: Now then. What's up wi' thee, tha's wringing wet.

Friend: It's siling it down out there but never mind that, listen... he's ended it. Last night, out of nowhere, said it weren't working and that were that, packed his bag while I stood watching him do it.

Me: Aw, love. Put wood in th'oil first, tha's letting all the warm out.

Friend: We'd been rowing on and off for weeks but I never thought he meant owt by it. Said he needed "space to find himself," whatever that's supposed to mean, and I just stood there like a gormless article, didn't even roar till he'd gone out t'door.

Me: Mm. Go on then.

Friend: He said I texted too much, wanted to know where he were every minute, and maybe I did, I don't know, maybe I smothered him, or if I'd said nowt about his mam's, or if I'd been less... I dunno, less me...

Me: Nay. Stop that right now, tha hears me. That weren't thee, flower, and don't you sit there listing thissen out like tha's summat to be ashamed of. He were never bothered to put reet in, that's t'top and bottom of it. Wanted an easy ride and his mates every week and none o' t'graft that comes wi' being with somebody proper. That's not on thee, that's on him.

Friend: But if I'd been less-

Me: No buts, sithee. Tha's not gormless, tha's not too much, tha's not owt tha's making thissen out to be. Tha's a good lass wi' a big heart and he couldn't handle it, simple as that. Doesn't say a thing about who tha is, only what he weren't willing to do. And if I clap eyes on him I'll bray him, I mean it.

Friend: (small laugh) Tha's meant to be comforting me, not planning a fight.

Me: This is comforting thee. Right then, tha's stopping here tonight, no arguing wi' me. Sit thissen down while I fettle the settee and get us a breadcake and summat off telly, or if tha'd rather I'll walk thee down to t'park while it's still light, get some air in thee.

Friend: Stopping's champion, I can't face going home the night.

Me: Then it's settled. Tha knows it'll be reet.

Friend: (laughs properly now) Aye. Ey, I do love thee, tha daft flower.

Me: Aye and all. Kettle first, tha can roar all tha wants after that.
