Eh, go on then, I'll tell thi, love, since tha's sat there wi that face on, but I'm warning thi now, it's a right saga and I'll be laughing halfway through it even though at t'time I could've cried into t'carpet.

Right. So this were meant to be dead simple. Booked it months before, everything sorted, seats an' all, my mate ticking boxes on her phone going "reet, that's coach booked, that's t'connection booked, that's t'hotel booked, we're laughing." And I says to her, I says, nowt'll go wrong if tha plans it proper, and she says aye, it'll be reet, we've done all we can. Famous last words, that were.

So we're stood at t'stop, dead early like good little offcumdens off on our travels, and it's not even gone yet, delayed before we've set one foot on it. Half hour standing there, then forty minutes, and some fella next to us going "typical, tha waits all this time for one and then it's late an' all," and I'm thinking aye, champion start this is.

Get on eventually, and I thought, reet, we're under way now, this'll be fine. Get about halfway and it just... stops. Dead. In t'middle of nowhere, driver comes on saying summat's gone wrong wi t'engine and we're going nowhere till it's sorted. And that were it. That were t'moment I knew.

Everyone starts piling off, and within no time there's this whole crowd of us stood on t'hard shoulder, or wherever it were, all these strangers who've got nowt in common except we're all stuck. Some woman wi three bags roaring because she's missed summat important, kiddies chelping at their mam because they're bored, this one old lad just stood there dead calm going "aye, this'll take a while, sithee, might as well sit down," and he were reet, weren't he, because that were the last calm thing anybody said for hours.

Three hours we were there. Past three hours, actually, because nobody could tell us owt. Every twenty minutes somebody official-looking'd come out and say "not long now" and then vanish again, and we're all just stood there, getting colder and colder because on top of everything else t'weather's turned proper foul. Started siling it down, absolutely hammering, and I'm nithered right through, teeth going, and my mate's coat's soaked through and she's not saying much which for her is always a bad sign.

And then, this is t'bit that still makes my stomach drop thinking on it. I turn round to say summat to her and she's not there. Just gone. Twenty minutes, love, twenty full minutes, me wandering round this crowd of soaked-through strangers going has tha seen a woman, about so tall, going frantic, proper frantic, because your mind goes to all sorts, dun't it, in a crowd like that in t'pouring rain. Turned out she'd gone looking for a toilet and got turned about in some little building round back and couldn't find her way out, and when I finally found her I could've bost into tears and clouted her both at once.

Now here's t'bit I still think on, and it warms me every time. There were this fella, didn't know him from Adam, just another stranded soul, and he sees us stood there like two drowned rats, and he goes off and comes back wi two cups of tea from somewhere he'd found, and just handed 'em over, no fuss, said "get that down thi, tha looks like tha needs it," and were gone into t'crowd before we'd even said ta properly. Never got his name. Never will. But I think on him now and then even now, and I always will, because that's t'sort of thing that gets thi through.

Course, by t'time transport were sorted and we could get moving again, we'd had to fork out for a taxi to get us to a different connection altogether, and that were fifty quid gone, just like that, fifty quid that weren't in owt we'd planned, and my mate's stood there going "well that's t'weekend money gone then, in't it," and I'm going aye, well, what were we meant to do, stand there while doomsday.

And that's when it properly kicked off between us. Because she wanted to wait it out and I wanted to try a different route altogether, and we're stood there in this station, both soaked, both starving, having a right go at one another.

Me: Tha's not thinking straight, we should've just gone t'other way from t'start.

My mate: Oh aye, and how were I meant to know that, I'm not a mind reader, am I.

Me: I said at t'time, I did, I said this route were dodgy.

My mate: Tha said nowt of t'sort, tha's just saying that now.

Proper handbags, it were. Two grown adults chelping at each other in t'middle of a station full of strangers, over summat neither of us could've changed anyroad. And then, to cap it, we takes a wrong turn trying to get to where we needed to be, dead confident about it an' all, marching off in completely t'wrong direction, and it cost us a full two hours to get back on track. Two hours, love. On top of everything else.

That were t'low point, if I'm honest. Standing there, soaked through, starving, fifty quid down, having just had a row, having just walked two hours in t'wrong direction for nowt, and I just remember thinking, I can't do this, I'm done, my legs have gone, my mate's not talking to me, and I just wanted to sit on t'floor and not move. Proper mafted with exhaustion, if that makes sense, wore right through, even though it were freezing an' all, just done in, every part of us.

And then, would tha credit it, just when we'd give up hope of owt going right, a fella at a little counter, seeing t'state of us, just waved us through onto summat that were about to leave, no questions, no faff, said go on, get on, tha looks like tha's had a day of it. Just like that. Small thing. But it were t'turn, that were. From there it all just about held together.

Got there in t'end. Nine hours late. Nine hours, love, on a journey that were meant to take no time at all. And when we finally walked through that door we looked like a pair of drowned, wind-battered ghosts, dripping everywhere, not a word left in either of us, just stood there looking at one another and starting to laugh, proper laughing, because what else is there to do by that point.

So aye. That's t'story. Not one bit of it were funny at t'time, not one single bit, I could've roared t'whole way through some of it. But sithee, tha knows how it goes, give it a few months and even t'worst journey turns into t'best story tha's got. It'll be reet, that's what they say, and it always is, eventually, even if it takes nine hours longer than it should.
