Alright my luvver, you did ask me to tell it proper, the whole business of the skating, so here tis, warts and all, no messing about.

You know I never done it as a kid. Half of Bristol were down the rink of a Saturday backalong, and I weren't one of 'em, I were off doing summat else, I don't even remember what now, probably scrumping down the allotments with the others, more fool me as it turned out. So there I were, gert big grown woman, turning up of a Tuesday evening in the dimpsy with a pair of borrowed skates and no clue at all what I were doing to myself.

First lesson, love, honest to god, hopeless idn't the word for it. My legs wouldn't do a thing my head were telling 'em. I'd think "right, glide" and my legs would just go every way but that. The instructor, her were patient enough, I'll give her that, but her didn't sugarcoat nothing neither.

Instructor: You'll get there, mind, but it do take longer when you're starting this age. Bodies don't learn like they used to.

Me: Cheers for that.

Instructor: Just being honest with you, see.

And her were right an' all, that were the maddening part of it. There were kids down that rink, seven, eight year old, gliding round like it were nothing, and here's me clinging the barrier like it owed me money. That did sting, I won't lie to you. You don't expect to be shown up by a nipper in a bobble hat but there tis.

The whole first week I ached in places I forgot I even had. Muscles up the back of my legs I hadn't troubled since god knows when, screaming at me every time I stood up off the sofa. My mother thought it were gert funny, watching me try and get up the stairs like an old woman.

Mother: What's the matter with you, walking like that?

Me: Don't, just don't.

Mother: You do look proper mazed, going up sideways like that.

But the fall, now, that's the bit you want to hear proper. About week two this were. I got a bit of confidence going, thought I were flying, and next thing I know my feet's gone from under me and I'm down, flat on my back, the wind knocked clean out the both of us, me and my dignity. Lay there a minute not able to breathe, thinking right, that's it, I'm done, this idn't for me. Proper wisht I felt, I don't mind telling you, tears and everything, right there on the ice with a little crowd of they onlookers stood round, some of 'em asking was I alright, one or two of the younger ones sniggering behind their hands, thinking I never seen, but I did.

I said to the instructor after, straight out, I'm not coming back, I've had enough of being made a fool of at my age. And her didn't argue with me, just said come once more, one more go, and if you still want to pack it in after that then fair enough. So I went back. Gert reluctant, mind, but I went.

Progress after that were slow. Proper slow. Weeks of getting the same little thing wrong over and over, some small crossover step or whatever they call it, and a little audience always there because that's how they rinks are, folk stood about watching whoever's making an eejit of theirselves that particular evening, which were me, most evenings. Some of 'em were lovely about it, calling out well done when I managed two foot without grabbing the barrier. Others plain amused, and I don't blame 'em, I must've looked a right sight.

What kept me at it, if I'm honest with you, weren't never comparing myself to they nippers flying about like they was born on blades. That way madness lies, my babber, you'll never win that one. What I did instead were look back a month and think, right, a month back I couldn't even stand up on the things without the barrier, and now look, I'm doing this bit, wobbly as anything but I'm doing it. That were the only comparison worth making, myself backalong against myself now.

Then, fourth month in, near enough, summat clicked. Can't tell you proper in words what it were, just one evening it weren't a fight no more, my body just knew where to put itself without me having to think it through every second. Went from impossible to just hard, same as that, one session to the next. I come off the ice that evening and had to stand there a minute getting my breath, not from falling this time, just from the feeling of it.

Instructor: There you go then. Proper job.

Me: Took me long enough.

Instructor: You got there though, didn't you. That's the bit that counts.

Never did catch the fast ones up, mind, and I made my peace with that a good while back. There's kids down that rink now doing jumps and spins I'll never manage, not if I go every week for the rest of my life, and that's fine, that's proper fine. What I'm proud of idn't beating them, it's the fact I can do things now, without even thinking on it, that I couldn't do at all when I started, couldn't even stand up straight on the things. That's the whole of it really.

Looking back now the whole daft season sits gert fondly in my head, not sour at all like I thought it might. The falls, the aching, the being laughed at a bit, the instructor telling me straight I were too old to be quick at it, all of it's folded into summat I'm glad through and through I done. We'd go for a drop of zider after, some evenings, me and a couple of the others from the class, sat there proper knackered and laughing about whoever went down hardest that night.

So there tis, love, the whole of it, start to finish. Wish you'd been there to see some of it, the fall especially, you'd have laughed yourself silly. Mind you come down the rink yourself sometime, see how you get on. Might be you're a natural. Might be you go down harder than I ever did. Either way, you'll want a drop of zider after, I can tell you that much for nothing.
