Okay so lemme tell you bout this, cause you wasn't there for none of it and I been wanting to tell somebody the whole thing from the start, not just the little pieces I be posting.

So you know mama'n'em never had money for skating lessons or whatever when I was little, it wasn't even a thing we thought about, we was doing other stuff. So every other grown somebody I know been knowing how to skate since they was six, seven years old, it's just something they picked up like walking. Me, I ain't never touched a pair of skates in my life till this past year, and I'm sitting here almost forty. I don't even fully know what made me finally do it, I think it was just watching everybody at the rink moving like water and something in me was like, ion care how old I am, I'm finna learn this.

First lesson had me feeling like the biggest fool God ever made. My body just would not do what my head was telling it to do, like there was a whole disconnect between the two. The instructor was patient with me, I'll give her that, but she wasn't finna lie to me neither.

The instructor: It's gon take you longer than these kids out here, I ain't gon front with you. Your body don't move the same at your age as it did when you was young. That's just facts.

And I appreciated her for saying it straight instead of blowing smoke, but it still ain't feel good to hear.

Within like three days these little kids, some of them can't be no more than eight or nine, was skating circles around me, literally. And that stung way more than I thought it was gon sting. I'm a grown woman getting outpaced by somebody child, and it's a whole crowd of parents sitting there watching too. That first week my whole body was aching in places I ain't even know could ache. Muscles in my hip, my ankle, some muscle in my side I forgot existed since I don't know when, all of them announcing theyself every single time I moved. I was walking around the house like a old lady.

And then it's this one fall that still stay in my mind clear as day. I went down hard, my friend, hard. Knocked the wind clean out my body, I'm laying there on that floor not able to catch my breath, staring up at the light, and for a second I'm thinking this is it, I'm done, this ain't for me. I remember laying there thinking don't nobody my age need to be out here doing this to theyself. I told my workmate that same night I was quitting, said it plain, said I was finna give the skates back and stick to what I know. But she wasn't hearing none of that.

My workmate: You not quitting off one fall. Everybody fall. You going back one more time before you make that decision, and if you still wanna quit after that, fine, but you ain't quitting off one bad day.

So I went back one more time. Then one more time after that.

After the fall, progress was slow, and I mean slow, and it was humiliating a whole lot of them days. Weeks would go by where I'm working on one little thing, just one, like getting my feet to cross right without me looking down, and finally getting it after messing it up over and over. And it's always a little crowd of regulars be out there watching, some of them cheering you on, telling you look at you go, and some of them clearly trying not to laugh, and you can see it in they face they trying not to laugh. I ain't even mad at them for it no more, looking back, cause I know how I must've looked.

What helped me keep going was I stopped comparing myself to who all was flying past me. Wasn't no point in that, comparing myself to somebody been skating they whole life. What I started doing instead was just asking myself, am I better than I was a month ago. That's it. That's the only measuring stick that ever did me any good. Cause if I'm comparing myself to the fast ones I'm finna feel like giving up every single time I step on that floor.

Then round about the fourth month, something just clicked. I can't even explain it in words really, it wasn't nothing I could point to and say oh it was this one thing. It was more a feeling in my body, like my legs finally understood what I had been asking them to do for months and just started doing it without me thinking so hard about it. The thing that had been feeling impossible this whole time was just difficult now, which don't sound like much of a change but my friend it was everything.

I never did catch up to them fast ones, and by the end I had made my peace with that a long time ago. What I'm proud of now is the stuff I can do without even thinking about it, that I could not do one bit when I first started. Crossing my feet, backward skating a little, stopping without falling on my face, little things, but when I think back to that first day I couldn't even stand up straight on them things, it's a whole different story.

Looking back on the whole season now, it sits fondly in my memory, it really do. The falls, the soreness that had me walking funny for a week, them kids skating circles round me, the ones out there trying to hide they laugh, all of it just folded up into something I'm glad I went through. Ion regret starting late one bit. If anything I'm glad I waited, cause I don't know if twenty-year-old me would've had the patience for it the way I did this time round.

So yeah, that's the whole thing, start to finish. Wish you could've been there to see it for yourself, some of it you would not have believed.
