The eldest: Awright now, sit yourself down and tell us. What it like out there.

Me: It's a lot, I'll tell you that much. It ain't like here, that's for sure.

The eldest: I know that's right. Round here you can pull off the porch and be at the church 'fore the song even go off good on the radio.

Me: See that's the thing, it don't work like that out there at all. It take the better part of a hour some days just to cross from one side of town to the other. And that's if the highway ain't backed up, which it usually is.

The auntie: A whole hour? To go where, the store?

Me: Naw, I'm saying like from where I stay to my coworker side of town. It's that spread out, it just keep going.

The cousin: Y'all be honking and carrying on like that too?

Me: Girl, it's loud. It ain't never quiet, not really, not even at night. Somebody horn going off, somebody music thumping, ambulance every which way you turn. You get used to it though, after a while you don't even hear it no more.

The auntie: Mmp. Round here you can hear a dog bark three streets over and know whose dog it is.

The eldest: Where you stay at now anyway? Mama'n'em was just saying you got a new place.

Me: I stay over east side, little ways off from downtown. It smaller than what y'all probably picturing, it ain't no mansion or nothing like that. One bedroom, but it mine.

The cousin: What it cost you?

Me: More than it look like it should, I tell you that. Rent go up every year like clockwork, don't matter if the place get any better or not. Out here you could get a whole house for what I pay on that one room.

The auntie: Lord have mercy. And that's why don't nobody wanna leave home in the first place.

Me: It ain't all bad though.

The eldest: People friendly out there?

Me: It's complicated. Some are, some ain't, depend on where you at and who you dealing with that particular day. Like my neighbor, she real sweet, be checking on me, bringing me plates when she cook too much. But you get around certain other folks and they ain't thinking about you at all, keep it moving, don't nobody know your name and don't care to know it either.

The auntie: So it's a lot of people but don't nobody really know nobody.

Me: Basically. It's a whole lot of people down there, more than you'd even think could fit in one place, but everybody in they own world, doing they own thing.

The cousin: What about where y'all be getting stuff from, like groceries and all that?

Me: We got the little corner store for the regular stuff, milk and bread and whatnot, and then it's a real market on the weekend, outside, folks selling produce off the truck and plates and oils and incense and all such as that. That's where I be going Saturday mornings mostly.

The eldest: What all they be selling out there?

Me: Everything you can think of. Greens, fish plates, jewelry, secondhand clothes, somebody always got a grill going selling ears of corn. It's a whole thing, took me a minute to even understand how it worked.

The auntie: How you find work out there anyway? Cause round here everybody know somebody who know somebody who can put you on.

Me: It's different out there, some. Half the time it's still who you know, but you also gotta put yourself out there, apply to places you ain't never met a soul at in your life. I been had this job now, going on two years, and I ain't meet my manager face to face till a good six months in. Everything be over the phone or on the computer first.

The cousin: That's wild to me.

Me: I'm telling you. First few months out there I stayed lost, straight up. I done got turned around three, four times just trying to find my own street, cause everything look the same, every block got the same kind of building sitting on it.

The eldest: You ain't have to ask nobody the way?

Me: I asked plenty, believe me. Folks be nice enough to point you the right way, mostly, some of them anyway. Took me a good minute to learn the layout though, learn which train go where, which side the sun set on so I know I'm even headed the right direction. Now I could get around with my eyes closed near about.

The auntie: What about the food? Cause don't nobody cook it like home, I already know that.

Me: The food be different, I'll say that much. It's better in some kind of ways, they got food from everywhere out there, you could eat something new every single night if you wanted to and never repeat yourself. But it ain't nobody out there cooking like mama'n'em, ain't no plate taste like this right here in front of me.

The eldest: That's cause don't nobody cook like this right here, period, out there, back home, or nowhere else on God's green earth.

The cousin: Awright but real talk now, it better or worse than here?

Me: I mean it's just different, it ain't really one or the other like that.

The cousin: Naw but for real though, which one.

Me: I ain't answering that, you tryna get me in trouble.

The auntie: She ain't finna answer that sitting right here in front of everybody.

Me: Ion even know how you compare it like that noway, it's two whole different things, two different lives near about.

The eldest: Mmp. Awright then, keep your little secret. But lemme ask you this, you ever coming on back home for good, or you staying out there for the rest of your days?

Me: I don't know, for real. Maybe one day I will. Ion see it happening no time soon, got too much going on right now, but I ain't gon sit here and say never either. We'll see how it go.

The eldest: Well. Door stay open regardless of what you decide.

Me: I know it do. I know it do.
