How's yourself. Sure I'll tell you the one about the cert for the extension, it's fierce craic now looking back on it, though it wasn't at the time I'll tell you.

It's stamped that compliance cert needed to be, not next week, not whenever suited himself above in the office, because the builder was starting the Monday and if it wasn't lodged by the Friday I'd have lost my slot with him for months, the state he does be in with work. So up I go, and I'm after standing there kilt for the guts of two hours, and yiz should have seen the crowd in front of me, some of them there since before the jacks opened.

I gets up to the counter finally and yer man behind it starts flicking through the file, taking his sweet time, going hmm to himself.

The official: Are you the one below for the compliance cert?

Me: I am.

The official: There's an awful lot of these to get through today. Could be next week before this one's seen to at all.

Me: Oh, right.

I says no more than that. Just left it hanging there, like I hadn't a notion what he was after saying.

The official: Some people, when they're in a hurry the way yourself is, they'd leave a little something for the girls in the back, do you know. Things do move quicker then.

Plain as day that time. I looks at him straight and says, sure isn't there a same-day turnaround for a registered job, I read it on the site, and amn't I entitled to it same as anyone. And I says I know one of the lads inside in planning anyway, I'll just give him a shout so, no bother on me.

That put notions of a different sort in him fierce quick. There was a right auld pause then, the two of us just looking at one another, and I hadn't a clue was it going to go one way or the other. But he only stamped it, tanks very much now, and handed it back over, no more said about it.

Got it for nothing in the end, and herself at home delighted with me. And that's the whole of it: half of them are only codding you, seeing will you bite. You don't. You stand there like an eejit and you let the man do his job, and don't he do it grand once he knows you're not falling for it.
