Me: Howya - no, stop, is that you below in the queue for the check-in?

The friend: I don't believe it, I do not believe it. Amn't I only delighted, what are the chances, the two of us stuck in an airport in the back arse of nowhere and neither of us knowing the other was even coming out here.

Me: It's shocked I am seeing you, honest to God. How long has it even been? It has to be more than ten years at this stage.

The friend: More than ten, easy. The young fella's above in secondary school now and he wasn't even thought of the last time I laid eyes on you.

Me: Would you stop. And how's himself keeping, is he here with yiz?

The friend: He's grand, gone off looking for the jacks with the two young ones, moaning about the traffic to the airport same as ever. And yourself, still in the same job?

Me: I am, though I'm after moving up a bit, more's the pity, more hours for the same aggravation. I made a hames of the interview first time round and got it anyway. And the family?

The friend: Three now, if you don't mind. I does be banjaxed most days between the lot of them.

Me: Three! Do you remember when we hadn't the sense God gave us, the pair of us climbing over the wall behind the school to get out of religion class, and the guards after nearly catching us in the lane?

The friend: Stop, don't, I still go red thinking of it. We were only acting the maggot, the state of us, and you fell into the ditch and ruined the good uniform and told your mother you fell on the road like a right chancer.

Me: I did so, and she believed me an' all. The craic we had that year.

The friend: Do you ever hear anything of yer wan that used be knocking round with us that whole time?

Me: Not a word. Someone said Australia years back but sure that could be anyone's guess at this stage.

The friend: If you hear anything let me know. Give us your number there, I'll put you on the phone properly this time, none of the oul "we must meet up" and never doing it.

Me: I will so. I'm not codding you either, I'll ring you when we're both home.

The friend: You'd want to. Deadly seeing you, isn't it mad. Mind yourself now.
