Friend: Gal, wha' all dat hollerin been 'bout last night? I yeddy oona through de wall like de whole house was fixin to come down on top de two of oona. Tell me de whole ting, de fight and de make-up after, don't leave out nothin.

Me: Chile, don't get me start... but I gwine tell you anyway 'cause you done ax. It ain't even 'bout nothin big when it start. My husband bin out on de crick since 'fore day clean, haulin crab pot fa de buckra own de fish house, and e cousin ridin long wid him. E say e da come back by five. I had cootuh stew on de stove since four, rice done too, and everyting just settin dere gettin cold and hard while de clock just movin on. Six come, seven come, e ain't call, ain't send word, nothin. By de time I shum walk through dat do' 'bout eight, I done pass mad and gone straight to vex.

Friend: Enty you say somethin soon as e walk in?

Me: Chile, I ain't wait one minute. I holler 'fore e even set down e bucket good. I say, "Where you bin? I bin standin here like a fool wid dis food gettin cold, and you ain't have de decency fa call?" And e holler right back just as loud, e say, "Woman, I was workin, I ain't got time fa call every hour like I answerin to you." And dat set it off proper, 'cause once e match my voice like dat, I ain't back down none neither.

Friend: Wha' you say back to dat?

Me: Dat's when I say de thing I ain't mean, de thing still make me shame when I think on it. I say, "You care more 'bout dem crab pot and dat old boat dan you care 'bout dis house or 'bout me one." Dat ain't true and I know it ain't true even while it comin out my mouth, but once it out, it out, can't call it back in.

Friend: Mm. E cut e eye at you after dat?

Me: E cut e eye so hard I thought e gwine burn a hole clean through me. And den e went and drag up de one thing we ain't touch in near two year. E say, "Dat's rich, comin from you, when you mama never did want me round dis family from de start, and you know it good." I ain't tell you dat sore spot befo', but dat's my mama and my husband, dey never did see eye to eye, and e know good and well dat still tender wid me, and e throw it up anyhow just to hurt me back.

Friend: Lawd, wha' happen after dat?

Me: E snatch e bucket back up and gone on out to de shed, and e shut dat screen do' so hard behind him de hinge pop clean off, still hangin crooked dis mornin. After dat, ain't neither one of we say another word. I gone set on de porch, e gone stay in de shed wid e nets, and we pass de whole night dat way, me in de house, e out dere, and mornin come and I still ain't answer when e come by fa coffee, and e ain't try me neither. We pass near de whole day like dat, me in de kitchen, e out to de dock messin wid de boat, both of we too proud fa be de first one fa talk, all de way past dinner, all de way on to near suppertime again.

Friend: So who broke it? Who come round first?

Me: E did. 'Bout dusk e come stand in de kitchen do', ain't say nothin big or grand, just, "Tittuh, we can't keep on like dis." And dat right dere stop me cold, 'cause e ain't call me tittuh since 'fore we was even married good, back when e was courtin me proper. Soon as dat word come out e mouth, I know de worst of it done pass.

Friend: Wha' e say after dat, when e really come to talk?

Me: E come set down cross from me and e say e sorry, straight out, none of dat sweet-mouthin fa get round it neither. E say, "I'm sorry I ain't call you when de tide run us late, I know you was standin here worryin, and dat ain't right of me to let you worry so. And I ain't had no business bringin up you mama de way I done, dat was low, and I know it was low soon as it left my mouth." Dat's exactly wha' e say, word fa word near 'bout.

Friend: And you, wha' you tell him?

Me: I tell him I sorry too, and I mean it. I say, "I ain't had no business hollerin at you soon as you walk through dat do', 'fore you even had a chance fa set down, and I ain't mean dat 'bout you not carin fa dis family, you work as hard as any man on dis islan and I know it good." And once we done say dat much, de heaviest of it just lift right off de both of we.

Friend: So how oona seal it up after all dat?

Me: We ain't say much more dat night, just set together on de porch a while, quiet-like. But dis mornin, first thing, e get up 'fore me and e roast up a whole pan of benne, and e mek benne wafer just how e mama used to mek 'em, and e set it on de table wid de coffee 'fore I even wake good. Soon as I shum dat pan settin dere, sweet-smellin up de whole kitchen, I know we done all right. Dat's how we do, one of we mek somethin sweet fa de other when word by e self ain't 'nough.

Friend: I knew somethin was serious when I yeddy dat hollerin through dat wall. I nearly come knock on oona do' and ax wha' was de matter.

Me: Gal, I'm just glad you ain't, 'cause it ain't nobody business but we own, and half of wha' get say in dat kind of hollerin ain't even true no way. But go on and laugh, I know you gwine tell it round to everybody down to de church anyhow, how you yeddy us through dat wall like two fool fightin over crab pot and cootuh stew.

Friend: I ain't say a word to nobody... yet.

Me: Mm-hm. Well, tell dem dis part too, den: we settin right here dis mornin sharin benne wafer and coffee like nothin ever happen, and e call me tittuh soft as anything when e pass me de cup. Whatever oona yeddy through dat wall, dis de part come after, and dis de part dat count.
